----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Greatest Easter Story Ever Told","year":"2023","month":"04"}



The Greatest Easter Story Ever Told

By Elder Gary E. Stevenson
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Look at the Book of Mormon in a new light and consider the profound witness it bears of the reality of the risen Christ.




First Presidency Letter on Easter

​You likely remember hearing a letter from the First Presidency read in your ward or branch several weeks ago. That letter announced that next Sunday—Easter Sunday—all wards and branches are to meet for sacrament meeting only, leaving additional time for worship at home as families to commemorate this most important holiday.1
The First Presidency’s letter caught my attention, and it caused me to reflect on the way our family has celebrated Easter through the years. The more I thought about our celebrations, the more I found myself wondering if we are inadvertently shortchanging the true meaning of this holiday, so central to all believers in Jesus Christ.



Christmas and Easter Traditions

​Those thoughts led me to ponder the difference between the way we have celebrated Christmas as compared with Easter. During December, we somehow manage to incorporate the fun of “Jingle Bells,” Christmas stockings, and gifts alongside other, more thoughtful traditions—such as caring for those in need, singing our favorite Christmas carols and hymns, and of course opening the scriptures and reading the Christmas story in Luke 2. Every year as we read this beloved story from a large old Bible, our family does what your family probably does—dressed with towels on our heads and shoulders and donning bathrobes to represent Joseph, Mary, and the many who came to worship the baby Jesus, we reenact the treasured Christmas story of the Savior’s birth.
​Our family celebrations at Easter, however, have been somewhat different. I feel our family has relied more on “going to church” to provide the meaningful, Christ-centered part of Easter; and then, as a family, we have gathered to share in other Easter-related traditions. I have loved watching our children and now our grandchildren hunt for Easter eggs and dig through their Easter baskets.
But the First Presidency letter was a wake-up call. Not only did they invite all of us to make sure our celebration of the most important event to ever happen on this earth—the Atonement and Resurrection of Jesus Christ—includes the reverence and respect the Lord deserves, but they also gave us more time with our families and friends on Easter Sunday to do so.

These words of the Prophet Joseph Smith add additional context to the significance of the events surrounding Easter: “The fundamental principles of our religion are the testimony of the Apostles and Prophets, concerning Jesus Christ, that He died, was buried, and rose again the third day, and ascended into heaven; and all other things which pertain to our religion are only appendages to it.”2
Lesa and I have discussed ways that our family can do better during the Easter season. Perhaps the question we have asked ourselves is one we could all contemplate: How do we model the teaching and celebration of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ, the Easter story, with the same balance, fulness, and rich religious tradition of the birth of Jesus Christ, the Christmas story?
It seems we are all trying. I observe a growing effort among Latter-day Saints toward a more Christ-centered Easter. This includes a greater and more thoughtful recognition of Palm Sunday and Good Friday as practiced by some of our Christian cousins. We might also adopt appropriate Christ-centered Easter traditions found in the cultures and practices of countries worldwide.
New Testament scholar N. T. Wright suggested: “We should be taking steps to celebrate Easter in creative new ways: in art, literature, children’s games, poetry, music, dance, festivals, bells, special concerts. … This is our greatest festival. Take Christmas away, and in biblical terms you lose two chapters at the front of Matthew and Luke, nothing else. Take Easter away, and you don’t have a New Testament; you don’t have a Christianity.”3



Easter, the Bible, and the Book of Mormon

​We cherish the Bible for all it teaches us about the birth, ministry, Crucifixion, and Resurrection of Jesus Christ. No three words embody more hope and eternal consequence for all of humankind than those uttered by a heavenly angel on Easter morning at the Garden Tomb: “He is risen.”4 We are deeply grateful for New Testament scripture that preserves the story of Easter and the Savior’s Easter ministry in Judea and Galilee.
As Lesa and I continued to ponder and seek ways to expand our family Easter celebration to be more Christ-centered, we discussed what scripture reading tradition we might introduce to our family—the Luke 2 equivalent for Easter, if you will.
And then we had this heavenly epiphany: In addition to the important verses about Easter in the New Testament, we as Latter-day Saints are endowed with a most remarkable Easter gift! A gift of unique witness, another testament of the Easter miracle that contains perhaps the most magnificent Easter scriptures in all of Christianity. I am referring of course to the Book of Mormon and, more specifically, to the account of Jesus Christ appearing to inhabitants in the New World in His resurrected glory.
The Prophet Joseph Smith described the Book of Mormon as “the most correct of any book,”5 and beginning with 3 Nephi 11, it tells the magnificent story of the resurrected Christ’s visit to the Nephites, the Savior’s Easter ministry. These Easter scriptures bear record of the Resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ.
In these chapters, Christ calls twelve disciples, teaches as He did in His Sermon on the Mount, announces that He has fulfilled the law of Moses, and prophesies about the latter-day gathering of Israel. He heals the sick and prays for the people in such a glorious way that “no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father.”6

This Easter, our family is going to focus on the first 17 verses of 3 Nephi 11, with which you are familiar. You recall the great multitude round about the temple in the land Bountiful who heard the voice of God the Father and saw Jesus Christ descending out of heaven to extend the most beautiful Easter invitation:
“Arise and come forth unto me, … that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am … the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world.
“And … the multitude went forth, … one by one … and did see with their eyes and did feel with their hands, … and did bear record, that it was he. …
“And … they did cry out with one accord, saying:
“Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God! And they did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him.”7
Imagine: the Nephites at the temple actually touched the hands of the risen Lord! We hope to make these chapters in 3 Nephi as much a part of our Easter tradition as Luke 2 is of our Christmas tradition. In reality, the Book of Mormon shares the greatest Easter story ever told. Let it not be the greatest Easter story never told.
I invite you to look at the Book of Mormon in a new light and consider the profound witness it bears of the reality of the risen Christ as well as the richness and depth of the doctrine of Christ.



The Book of Mormon Testifies of Jesus Christ

We might ask, How can reading Book of Mormon scriptures at Easter bless our lives and those of our loved ones in a meaningful way? More than one might realize. Anytime we read and study from the Book of Mormon, we can expect remarkable outcomes.
Recently, Lesa and I attended the viewing of a dear friend, a woman of faith whose life was cut short by illness. We gathered with her family and close friends, exchanging fond memories of this beautiful soul who had enriched our lives.
While standing away some distance from the casket, conversing with others, I noticed two young Primary-age girls approach the casket and stretch up on their tiptoes—eyes just reaching its edge—to pay their final respects to their beloved aunt. With no one else nearby, Lesa slipped over and crouched down beside them to offer comfort and teaching. She asked how they were doing and if they knew where their aunt was now. They shared their sadness, but then these precious daughters of God, with confidence brimming in their eyes, said they knew their aunt was now happy and she could be with Jesus.
At this tender age, they found peace in the great plan of happiness and, in their own childlike way, testified of the profound reality and simple beauty of the Resurrection of the Savior. They knew this in their hearts because of thoughtful teachings of loving parents, family, and Primary leaders planting a seed of faith in Jesus Christ and eternal life. Wise beyond their years, these young girls understood truths that come to us through the Easter message and ministry of the resurrected Savior and the words of the prophets as told in the Book of Mormon.
I have observed that when President Russell M. Nelson gives a gift of the Book of Mormon to someone not of our faith, including world leaders, he often turns to 3 Nephi and reads about the appearance of the resurrected Christ to the Nephites. In doing so, the living prophet is in essence bearing witness of the living Christ.
We cannot stand as witnesses of Jesus Christ until we can bear witness of Him. The Book of Mormon is another witness of Jesus Christ because throughout its sacred pages, one prophet after another testifies not only that Christ would come but that He did come.



Because of Him

​I am holding in my hand a copy of the first edition of the Book of Mormon. Doing so always moves me. For much of my adult life, I have been fascinated, enthralled, and riveted with what young Joseph Smith did to get this sacred book of scripture translated and published. The miracles that had to occur are staggering to contemplate.
​But that is not why this book moves me. It is because this book, more than any other ever published on this earth, bears witness of the life, the ministry, the teachings, the Atonement, and the Resurrection of Jesus Christ. My dear brothers and sisters, studying regularly from this book about Jesus Christ will change your life. It will open your eyes to new possibilities. It will increase your hope and fill you with charity. Most of all, it will build and strengthen your faith in Jesus Christ and bless you with a sure knowledge that He and our Father know you, love you, and want you to find your way back home, with a capital H.
Dear brothers and sisters, the time has come, foretold by prophets of old, “when the knowledge of a Savior shall spread throughout every nation, kindred, tongue, and people.”8 We are seeing the fulfillment of this prophecy before our very eyes, through the witness of Jesus Christ found in the Book of Mormon.

No book does more to show that:


Because of Jesus Christ, everything changed.


Because of Him, everything is better.


Because of Him, life is manageable—especially the painful moments.


Because of Him, everything is possible.


His visit as a resurrected Savior, introduced by God the Father, is a most glorious and triumphant Easter message. It will help our family members gain a personal testimony of Jesus Christ as our Savior and Redeemer, who broke the bands of death.
I close with my testimony of the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon and of Jesus Christ as the Son of the living God. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See First Presidency letter, Feb. 15, 2023.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2007), 49; emphasis added.


N. T. Wright, Surprised by Hope: Rethinking Heaven, the Resurrection, and the Mission of the Church (2008), 256.


Matthew 28:6.


Teachings: Joseph Smith, 64.


3 Nephi 17:17.


See 3 Nephi 11:1–17.


Mosiah 3:20.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Never Give Up an Opportunity to Testify of Christ","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Never Give Up an Opportunity to Testify of Christ

By President Bonnie H. Cordon
Young Women General President

True joy rests on our willingness to come closer to Christ and witness for ourselves.


Five years ago today, we raised our hands to sustain our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, as President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints―the Lord’s mouthpiece for this remarkable season of growth and revelation. Through him, we have received countless invitations and have been promised glorious blessings if we will center our lives on our Savior, Jesus Christ.
In 2011, while I was serving with my husband as mission leaders in beautiful Curitiba, Brazil, my phone rang during a meeting. Rushing to silence it, I noticed the call was from my father. I quickly left the meeting to answer: “Hi, Dad!”
Unexpectedly, his voice was filled with emotion: “Hi, Bonnie. I need to tell you something. I’ve been diagnosed with ALS.”
My mind swirled with confusion, “Wait! What is ALS?”
Dad was already explaining, “My mind will stay alert while my body slowly shuts down.”
I felt my whole world shift as I began to wrestle with the implications of this grievous news. But on that unforgettable day, it was his last sentence that found a permanent place in my heart. My dear father said with urgency, “Bonnie, never give up an opportunity to testify of Christ.”
I have pondered and prayed over Dad’s counsel. I have often asked myself if I fully know what it means to never give up an opportunity to testify of Jesus Christ.
Like you, I have occasionally stood on the first Sunday of the month and borne a witness of Christ. Many times I have testified of gospel truths as part of a lesson. I have boldly taught truth and declared the divinity of Christ as a missionary.
Yet this plea felt more personal! It seemed as though he was saying, “Bonnie, don’t let the world overtake you! Stay true to your covenants with the Savior. Seek to experience His blessings every day, and be able to testify through the Holy Ghost of His power and presence in your life!”
We live in a fallen world, with distractions coaxing our eyes and hearts downward instead of heavenward. Much like the Nephites in 3 Nephi 11, we need Jesus Christ. Can you imagine yourself there, among people who had experienced so much chaos and destruction? What would it be like to hear the Lord’s personal invitation:
“Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am … the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world.
“And … the multitude went forth … one by one … and did see with their eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know … and had witnessed for themselves.”1
These Nephites eagerly went forward to thrust their hands into His side and feel the prints of the nails in His hands and feet so they could witness for themselves that this was the Christ. Similarly, many faithful people we have studied in the New Testament this year had anxiously awaited Christ’s coming. Then they stepped from their fields, workbenches, and dinner tables and followed Him, pressed upon Him, thronged Him, and sat with Him. Are we as anxious to witness for ourselves as the multitudes in the scriptures? Are the blessings we seek less needful than theirs?
When Christ physically visited the Nephites at their temple, His invitation was not to stand at a distance and look upon Him, but to touch Him, to feel for themselves the reality of the Savior of humankind. How can we draw close enough to gain a personal witness of Jesus Christ? This may be part of what my father was trying to teach me. While we may not enjoy the same physical proximity as those who walked with Christ during His earthly ministry, through the Holy Ghost we can experience His power every day! As much as we need!
The young women around the world have taught me so much about seeking Christ and gaining a daily, personal witness of Him. Let me share the wisdom of two of them:
Livvy has watched general conference her entire life. In fact, in her home they traditionally watch all five sessions as a family. In the past, conference for Livvy had meant doodling or drifting into the occasional unintended nap. But this past October general conference was different. It became personal.
This time, Livvy decided to be an active recipient. She silenced notifications on her phone and took notes of impressions from the Spirit. She was amazed as she felt specific things God wanted her to hear and do. This decision made a difference in her life almost immediately.
Just days later her friends invited her to an inappropriate movie. She reflected, “I felt the words and spirit of conference return into my heart, and I heard myself declining their invitation.” She also had the courage to share her testimony of the Savior in her ward.
After these events she stated, “The amazing thing is, when I heard myself testify that Jesus is the Christ, I felt the Holy Ghost confirm it again for me.”
Livvy did not skip like a stone over the surface of conference weekend; she dove in, mind and spirit, and found the Savior there.
And then there is Maddy. When her family stopped attending church, Maddy was confused and not certain what to do. She realized something significant was missing. So at age 13, Maddy began attending church alone. Even though being alone was sometimes hard and uncomfortable, she knew she could find the Savior at church and she wanted to be where He was. She said, “In church my soul felt like it was at home.”
Maddy held onto the fact that her family had been sealed together for eternity. She started bringing her younger brothers with her to church and studying scriptures with them at home. Eventually her mom began joining them. Maddy told her mom of her desire to serve a mission and asked if her mom could be ready to attend the temple with her.
Today Maddy is in the MTC. She is serving. She is witnessing of Christ. Her example helped lead both of her parents back to the temple and back to Christ.
Like Livvy and Maddy, as we choose to seek Christ, the Spirit will witness of Him in many different situations. These witnesses of the Spirit occur as we fast, pray, wait, and continue forward. Our closeness to Christ grows through worshipping frequently in the temple, repenting daily, studying scriptures, attending church and seminary, pondering our patriarchal blessings, worthily receiving ordinances, and honoring sacred covenants. All of these invite the Spirit to enlighten our minds, and they bring added peace and protection. But do we honor them as sacred opportunities to testify of Christ?
I have attended the temple many times, but when I worship in the house of the Lord, it changes me. Sometimes while fasting, I find myself simply going hungry, but other times, I feast on the Spirit with purpose. I sometimes have mumbled prayers that are repetitive and routine, but I have also come eager to receive counsel from the Lord through prayer.
There is power in making these holy habits less of a checklist and more of a witness. The process will be gradual but will grow with daily, active participation and purposeful experiences with Christ. As we consistently act on His teaching, we gain a testimony of Him; we build a relationship with Him and our Heavenly Father. We begin to become like Them.
The adversary creates so much noise that it can be difficult to hear the Lord’s voice. Our world, our challenges, our circumstances will not get quieter, but we can and must hunger and thirst after the things of Christ to “hear Him” with clarity.2 We want to create muscle memory of discipleship and testimony that will bring into focus our reliance on our Savior each day.
My father has been gone for over 11 years now, but his words are alive in me. “Bonnie, never give up an opportunity to testify of Christ.” I invite you to join me in accepting his invitation. Look for Christ everywhere―I promise He is there!3 True joy rests on our willingness to come closer to Christ and witness for ourselves.
We know that in the last days, “every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess” that Jesus is the Christ.4 I pray this witness will become a normal and natural experience for us now—that we will take every opportunity to joyfully testify: Jesus Christ lives!
Oh, how I love Him. How grateful we are for His infinite Atonement, which has “made eternal life a possibility and immortality a reality for [us] all.”5 I testify of our Savior’s goodness and great glory in His sacred name, even Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


3 Nephi 11:14–16; emphasis added.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Hear Him,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2020, 88–92.


See Alma 30:44; Doctrine and Covenants 6:36; Moses 6:63.


Mosiah 27:31; see also Doctrine and Covenants 88:104.


Russell M. Nelson, “Revelation for the Church, Revelation for Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 93.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Just Keep Going—with Faith","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Just Keep Going—with Faith

By Elder Carl B. Cook
Of the Presidency of the Seventy

Exercising faith in our Savior, Jesus Christ, helps us overcome discouragement no matter what obstacles we encounter.


Elder George A. Smith, an Apostle, received counsel from the Prophet Joseph Smith at a time of great difficulty: “He told me I should never get discouraged, whatever difficulties might surround me. If I was sunk in the lowest pit of Nova Scotia and all the Rocky Mountains piled on top of me, I ought not to be discouraged but hang on, exercise faith, and keep up good courage and I should come out on the top of the heap at last.”1
How could the Prophet Joseph say that—to someone who was suffering? Because he knew it was true. He lived it. Joseph repeatedly experienced severe difficulties in his life. However, as he exercised faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement and just kept going, he overcame seemingly insurmountable obstacles.2
Today I would like to renew Joseph’s plea not to let discouragement overwhelm us when we face disappointment, painful experiences, our own inadequacies, or other challenges.
When I say discouragement, I’m not talking about the more debilitating challenges of clinical depression, anxiety disorders, or other illnesses that require special treatment.3 I’m just talking about plain old discouragement that comes with the ups and downs of life.
I am inspired by my heroes who just keep going—with faith—no matter what.4 In the Book of Mormon, we read of Zoram, the servant of Laban. When Nephi obtained the brass plates, Zoram was faced with the choice to follow Nephi and his brothers into the wilderness or possibly lose his life.
What a choice! Zoram’s first inclination was to run, but Nephi held him and made an oath that if he would go with them, he would be free and have a place with their family. Zoram took courage and went with them.5
Zoram suffered many afflictions in his new life, yet he pressed forward with faith. We have no indication that Zoram clung to his past or harbored resentment toward God or others.6 He was a true friend to Nephi, a prophet, and he and his seed dwelt in freedom and prosperity in the promised land. What had been a huge obstacle in Zoram’s path eventually led to rich blessings, due to his faithfulness and willingness to just keep going—with faith.7
Recently I listened to a courageous sister share how she persevered through difficulties.8 She had some challenges, and one Sunday she was sitting in Relief Society, listening to a teacher who she thought lived a picture-perfect life—totally different from her own. She was tired and discouraged. She felt like she didn’t measure up—or even belong—so she got up and left, planning to never return to church again. Walking to her car, she felt a distinct impression: “Go into the chapel and listen to the sacrament meeting speaker.” She questioned the prompting but felt it again strongly, so she went into the meeting.
The message was exactly what she needed. She felt the Spirit. She knew the Lord wanted her to stay with Him, to be His disciple, and to attend church, so she did.
Do you know what she was grateful for? That she didn’t give up. She just kept going—with faith in Jesus Christ, even when it stretched her, and she and her family are being abundantly blessed as she presses forward.
The God of heaven and earth will help us overcome discouragement and whatever obstacles we encounter if we look to Him, follow the promptings of the Holy Ghost,9 and just keep going—with faith.
Thankfully, when we are weak or incapable, the Lord can strengthen our faith. He can increase our capacity beyond our own. I have experienced that. More than 20 years ago, I was unexpectedly called as an Area Seventy, and I felt very inadequate. Following my training assignments, I was to preside at my first stake conference.10 The stake president and I meticulously planned every detail. Shortly before the conference, President Boyd K. Packer, then–Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, called to see if he could accompany me. I was surprised and, of course, agreed. I asked how he would like to proceed since he would preside. He suggested that we undo the plans and prepare to follow the Spirit. Thankfully, I still had 10 days to study, pray, and prepare.
With an open agenda, we were on the stand 20 minutes before the leadership meeting began. I leaned over to the stake president and whispered, “This is a wonderful stake.”
President Packer elbowed me gently and said, “No talking.”
I stopped talking, and his general conference talk “Reverence Invites Revelation”11 came to mind. I observed that President Packer was writing down scripture references. The Spirit confirmed to me that he was receiving impressions for the meeting. My learning experience had just begun.
President Packer spoke for the first 15 minutes and emphasized the importance of conducting all meetings as guided by the Holy Spirit.12 He then said, “We will now hear from Elder Cook.”
On my way to the pulpit, I asked how long he would like me to take and if there was a topic he would like me to address. He said, “Take 15 minutes and carry on as you feel inspired.” I took about 14 minutes and shared everything I had on my mind.
President Packer stood again and spoke for another 15 minutes. He shared this scripture:
“Speak the thoughts that I shall put into your hearts, and you shall not be confounded before men;
“For it shall be given you … in the very moment, what ye shall say.”13
Then he said, “We will now hear from Elder Cook.”
I was shocked. I had never considered the possibility that I would be asked to speak twice in one meeting. I didn’t have anything in mind to say. Praying fervently and relying on the Lord for help, somehow, I was blessed with a thought, a scripture, and I was able to speak for another 15 minutes. I sat down totally exhausted.
President Packer spoke again for 15 minutes about following the Spirit and shared Paul’s teachings that we should not speak “words which man’s wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth.”14 As you can imagine, I was overwhelmed when he was impressed to say for the third time, “We will now hear from Elder Cook.”
I was empty. I had nothing. I knew it was time to exercise more faith. Slowly, I made my way to the pulpit, pleading to God for help. As I stepped up to the microphone, the Lord miraculously blessed me to somehow give another 15-minute message.15
The meeting finally ended, but I quickly realized that the adult session would start in one hour. Oh, no! Like Zoram, I sincerely wanted to run, but just as Nephi caught him, I knew President Packer would catch me. The adult meeting followed the very same pattern. I spoke three more times. The next day during the general session, I spoke once.
After the conference, President Packer said with affection, “Let’s do it again sometime.” I love President Boyd K. Packer and appreciate all that I learned.
Do you know what I am grateful for? That I didn’t give up—or resist. If I had given in to my desperate desire to escape from those meetings, I would have missed an opportunity to increase my faith and receive a rich outpouring of love and support from my Heavenly Father. I learned of His mercy, the miraculous enabling power of Jesus Christ and His Atonement, and the powerful influence of the Holy Ghost. In spite of my weakness,16 I learned that I can serve; I can contribute when the Lord is by my side if I just keep going—with faith.
Regardless of the size, scope, and seriousness of the challenges we face in life, we all have times when we feel like stopping, leaving, escaping, or possibly giving up. But exercising faith in our Savior, Jesus Christ, helps us overcome discouragement no matter what obstacles we encounter.
Just as the Savior finished the work He was given to do, He has the power to help us finish the work we have been given.17 We can be blessed to move forward along the covenant path, no matter how rocky it becomes, and eventually receive eternal life.18
As the Prophet Joseph Smith said, “Stand fast, ye Saints of God, hold on a little while longer, and the storm of life will be past, and you will be rewarded by that God whose servants you are.”19 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


George A. Smith, in Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2011), 235.


See Teachings: Joseph Smith, 227–36.


When I speak of discouragement, I am not suggesting that to “just keep going with faith in Christ” is the only effort needed for people experiencing clinical depression, anxiety disorders, or other illnesses. For these friends, family members, and others listening, I echo the counsel of our Church leaders to please seek medical, psychological, and spiritual care while trusting in the Lord. My heart goes out to each of you wrestling with these unique challenges. We sincerely pray for you.


Some of my heroes in the scriptures include Caleb (see Numbers 14:6–9, 24), Job (see Job 19:25–26), and Nephi (see 1 Nephi 3:7), in addition to my modern-day heroes.


See 1 Nephi 4:20, 30–35, 38.


See Dale G. Renlund, “Infuriating Unfairness,” Liahona, May 2021, 41–45.


See 2 Nephi 1:30–32. “Although [Zoram] had to endure a little rough handling, the trap he was caught in was the very situation through which God had determined to bless him. Though he had to give up his homeland, God was preparing a better one” (David B. Paxman, “Zoram and I: Getting Our Stories Straight” [Brigham Young University devotional, July 27, 2010], 8, speeches.byu.edu).


I heard this sister’s testimony in a ward in the Riverdale Utah Stake on December 11, 2022. The experience she shared occurred in a previous ward.


See Doctrine and Covenants 11:12–13.


My assignment was in the Benson Utah Stake on November 3–4, 2001. President Jerry Toombs was the stake president.


See Boyd K. Packer, “Reverence Invites Revelation,” Ensign, Nov. 1991, 21–23.


See Doctrine and Covenants 46:2.


Doctrine and Covenants 100:5–6; see also verses 7–8.


1 Corinthians 2:13.


President Russell M. Nelson has said, “When you spiritually stretch beyond anything you have ever done before, then [the Savior’s] power will flow into you” (“Drawing the Power of Jesus Christ into Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2017, 42).


See Ether 12:27.


See John 17:4.


See 2 Nephi 31:20; Mosiah 2:41; Alma 36:3.


Teachings: Joseph Smith, 235.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Ministering","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Ministering

By Elder Gerrit W. Gong
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Let us reach out and care as our Savior would, especially to those whom we are privileged by love and assignment to minister.


Dear brothers and sisters, friends, welcome to general conference!
After general conference last October, Sister Gong and I walked through the Conference Center to say hello and to hear your gospel experiences.
Our members from Mexico said, “Hoy es el tiempo de México.”

We learned Gilly and Mary are friends from England. When Mary joined the Church, she lost her place to live. Gilly generously invited Mary to come live with her. Full of faith, Gilly says, “I’ve never doubted the Lord is with me.” At conference, Gilly also had a joyful reunion with the sister missionary who taught her 47 years ago.

Jeff and his wife, Melissa, were attending general conference for his first time. Jeff played professional baseball (he was a catcher) and is now a physician anesthesiologist. He told me, “Much to my surprise, I am moving toward baptism because it feels like the most authentic and honest way to live.”
Earlier, Melissa had apologized to Jeff’s assigned ministering brother, “Jeff does not want ‘white shirts’ in our house.” The ministering brother said, “I’ll find a way.” Now he and Jeff are good friends. At Jeff’s baptism, I met a congregation of Latter-day Saints whom Jeff, Melissa, and their daughter, Charlotte, love.
As followers of Jesus Christ, we seek to minister to others as He would because lives are waiting to change.
When Peggy told me her husband, John, after 31 years of marriage, was going to be baptized, I asked what had changed.
Peggy said, “John and I were studying the New Testament Come, Follow Me, and John asked about Church doctrine.”
Peggy said, “Let’s invite the missionaries.”
John said, “No missionaries—unless my friend can come.” Over 10 years, John’s ministering brother had become his trusted friend. (I thought, What if John’s ministering brother had stopped coming after one, two, or nine years?)
John listened. He read the Book of Mormon with real intent. When the missionaries invited John to be baptized, he said yes. Peggy said, “I fell off my chair and started to cry.”
John said, “I changed as I drew closer to the Lord.” Later, John and Peggy were sealed in the holy temple. Last December, John passed away at age 92. Peggy says, “John was always a good person, but he became different in a beautiful way after he was baptized.”

Sister Gong and I met Meb and Jenny by video during the COVID pandemic. (We met many wonderful couples and individuals by video during COVID, each prayerfully introduced by their stake president.)
Meb and Jenny humbly said concerns in their lives made them wonder if their temple marriage could be saved and, if so, how. They believed Jesus Christ’s Atonement and their covenant commitments could help them.
Imagine my joy when Meb and Jenny received new temple recommends and returned together to the house of the Lord. Later Meb almost died. What a blessing Meb and Jenny have restored covenant relationships with the Lord and each other and feel the ministering love of many around them.
Everywhere I go, I gratefully learn from those who minister and care as our Savior would.

In Peru, Sister Gong and I met Salvador and his siblings.1 Salvador and his siblings are orphans. It was Salvador’s birthday. The Church leaders and members who faithfully minister to this family inspire me. “Pure religion and undefiled … is this, To visit the fatherless and widows,”2 “succor the weak, lift up the hands which hang down, … strengthen the feeble knees.”3
In Hong Kong, an elders quorum president modestly shares how their quorum consistently conducts 100-percent ministering interviews. “We prayerfully organize companionships so everyone can care for someone and be cared for,” he says. “We regularly ask each companionship about those for whom they minister. We do not check boxes; we minister to the ministers who care for our people.”

In Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo, President Bokolo shares how he and his family joined the Church in France. One day, as he was reading his patriarchal blessing, the Spirit inspired Brother Bokolo to return with his family to the DR Congo. Brother Bokolo knew they would face many challenges if they returned. And their church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was not yet established in Kinshasa.
Yet, in faith, as have many others, the Bokolos followed the Lord’s Spirit. In Kinshasa, they ministered to and blessed those around them, overcame challenges, received spiritual and temporal blessings. Today, they rejoice in having a house of the Lord in their country.4
A convert was ministered to by personal example. As a young man, he said he spent his days lounging at the beach. One day, he said, “I saw an attractive girl in a modest swimsuit.” Amazed, he went to ask why such an attractive girl would wear such a modest swimsuit. She was a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and asked with a smile, “Would you like to come to church Sunday?” He said yes.
Years ago, while we were on an assignment together, Elder L. Tom Perry shared how he and his companion regularly ministered to a sister who lived alone in a rough Boston neighborhood. When Elder Perry and his companion arrived, the sister cautiously directed, “Slide your temple recommends under the door.” Only after seeing the temple recommends would she unbolt multiple locks and open the door.5 Of course, I am not saying ministering companionships need temple recommends. But I love the thought that as those who honor covenants minister, homes unlock and hearts open.
Elder Perry also offered practical advice. He said, “Give companionships a reasonable number of assignments, prayerfully chosen, clustered geographically where appropriate so travel time is used well.” He would counsel, “Start with those who most need visits. Build from those most likely to welcome and respond well to visits.” He concluded, “Faithful consistency brings miracles.”

Higher and holier ministering6 comes when we pray for “the pure love of Christ”7 and follow the Spirit. It also comes as elders quorum and Relief Society presidencies, under the bishop’s direction, oversee ministering efforts, including assigning ministering companionships. Please give our young men and young women needed opportunity to accompany and be mentored by experienced ministering brothers and sisters. And please let our young rising generation inspire ministering brother and sister companions.
In some places in the Church, we have a ministering gap. More say they are ministering than say they are being ministered to. We do not want checklist concern. But often we need more than a sincere hello in the hall or a casual “Can I help you?” in the parking lot. In many places, we can reach out, understand others where they are, and build relationships when we regularly visit members in their homes. Inspired invitations change lives. When invitations help us make and keep sacred covenants, we draw closer to the Lord and each other.
It is said that those who understand the true spirit of ministering do more than before, while those who do not understand do less. Let’s do more, as our Savior would. As our hymn says, it is “a blessing of duty and love.”8
Ward councils, elders quorums, and Relief Societies, please hearken to the Good Shepherd and help Him “seek that which was lost, … bring again that which was driven away, … bind up that which was broken, … strengthen that which was sick.”9 We may entertain “angels unawares”10 as we make room in His inn for all.11
Inspired ministering blesses families and individuals; it also strengthens wards and branches. Think of your ward or branch as a spiritual ecosystem. In the spirit of the Book of Mormon allegory of the olive trees, the Lord of the vineyard and his servants bring forth precious fruit and strengthen each tree by binding together the strengths and weaknesses of all the trees.12 The Lord of the vineyard and his servants repeatedly ask, “What more can I do?”13 Together, they bless hearts and homes, wards and branches, through inspired, consistent ministering.14

Ministering—shepherding—makes our vineyard “one body”15—a sacred grove. Each tree in our grove is a living family tree. Roots and branches intertwine. Ministering blesses generations. When service is needed, wise bishops and elders quorum and Relief Society presidencies ask, “Who are the ministering brothers and sisters?” Ward councils and ministering interviews ask not only about challenges or problems but also look with eyes to see and rejoice in the Lord’s many tender mercies in our lives as we minister as He would.
Our Savior is our perfect example.16 Because He is good, He can go about doing good.17 He blesses the one and the 99. He is ministering personified. We become more like Jesus Christ when we do “unto … the least of these” as we would unto Him,18 when we love our neighbor as ourselves,19 when we “love one another; as I have loved you,”20 and when “whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister.”21
Jesus Christ ministers. Angels minister.22 Followers of Jesus Christ “minister one to another,”23 “rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep,”24 “watch over [and] … nourish [the people] with things pertaining to righteousness,”25 “remember … the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted,”26 let His name be known through our ministry.27 As we minister as He would, we witness His miracles, His blessings.28 We obtain “a more excellent ministry.”29
We may tire physically. But in His service we do “not weary in well-doing.”30 We diligently do our best, do not run faster than we have strength,31 but trust, as the Apostle Paul teaches, that “God loveth a cheerful giver.”32 For God who “ministereth seed to the sower both minister bread for your food, and multiply your seed sown.”33 In other words, God enriches “every thing to all bountifulness.”34 They “which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully.”35
Wherever we are in this Easter season, let us reach out and care as our Savior would, especially to those whom we are privileged by love and assignment to minister. In so doing, may we draw closer to Jesus Christ and each other, becoming more like Him and the followers of Jesus Christ He would have us each be. In His sacred name, Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Sister Gong and I joined together with Elder Enrique and Sister Ruth Falabella for this visit. Salvador and his siblings are now older than these earlier photos but are still part of a caring community of brothers and sisters who minister with faithful kindness.


James 1:27.


Doctrine and Covenants 81:5.


The photo of President Bokolo and his family dates to when Sister Gong and I met them.


See L. Tom Perry, “Strive to Be Temple Worthy” (Ricks College devotional, Sept. 19, 1989), byui.edu/devotionalsandspeeches.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Ministering,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 100.


See Moroni 7:47–48; see also verses 4–8.


“Have I Done Any Good?,” Hymns, no. 223.


Ezekiel 34:16. In Ezekiel 34, the Lord also sternly warns the shepherds of Israel of the consequences when the sheep are not tended or fed.


Hebrews 13:2.


See Luke 2:7; 10:33–34.


This theme appears throughout Jacob 5, including in verses 17–18, 20, 24, 75. Verse 28 reminds us, “And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard and the servant of the Lord of the vineyard did nourish all the fruit of the vineyard” (emphasis added).


The Lord of the vineyard asks twice, “What could I have done more for my vineyard?” (Jacob 5:41, 49; emphasis added) and once, “What could I have done more in my vineyard?” (Jacob 5:47; emphasis added).


In the spirit of Mosiah 18:21 and Matthew 25:40.


See Jacob 5:74: “And they became like unto one body; and the fruits were equal”; see also, for example, 1 Corinthians 12:12: “For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body: so also is Christ.”


The scriptures are replete with examples of how our Savior ministers. For example, amidst the pressing throng, He is present in the moment when the woman touches the hem of His garment, and He feels healing flow to her (see Mark 5:24–34). Or, with “no leisure so much as to eat” (Mark 6:31), Jesus and His disciples are physically tired and seeking a place to rest. Yet, seeing the multitude without a shepherd, our Savior heals, teaches, feeds them. He gathers basketfuls of loaves and fishes afterward (see Mark 6:31–44).


See Acts 10:38.


See Matthew 25:35–40.


See Mark 12:31.


John 13:34.


Matthew 20:26; see also Luke 22:26–27.


See, for example, Matthew 4:11; Luke 22:42–44; Acts 10:1–7; 12:5–11; 2 Nephi 32:3; Moroni 7:22, 29–30.


3 Nephi 26:19.


Romans 12:15; see also Mosiah 18:9.


Mosiah 23:18.


Doctrine and Covenants 52:40.


See Abraham 1:19.


Acts 26:16 speaks of becoming “a minister and a witness” of the things of the Lord.


Hebrews 8:6.


Doctrine and Covenants 64:33; see also Alma 37:34.


See Mosiah 4:27.


2 Corinthians 9:7.


2 Corinthians 9:10.


2 Corinthians 9:11.


2 Corinthians 9:6.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Safely Gathered Home","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Safely Gathered Home

By Elder Quentin L. Cook
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

We are in a unique position to gather Israel on both sides of the veil as never before under the Father’s plan.


President Russell M. Nelson, our beloved prophet, has profoundly emphasized that our unique responsibility is to help gather scattered Israel and prepare the world for the Second Coming of Jesus Christ.1 The Father of our spirits desires His children to be safely gathered home.
Our Heavenly Father’s plan for safely gathering His children to our heavenly home is not based on worldly success, economic status, education, race, or gender. Father’s plan is based on righteousness, keeping His commandments, and receiving sacred ordinances and honoring the covenants we make.2
The divinely inspired doctrine that we are all brothers and sisters and “all are alike unto God” underlies this great work of gathering. This doctrine accords with those who deeply desire for people of diverse economic and racial status to experience better lives. We applaud and join in such efforts. Moreover, we desire for all of God’s children to come unto Him and receive the eternal blessings He offers through His gospel.3 In the Lord’s preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, He declares, “Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together.”4
I love that the very first verse in the Doctrine and Covenants includes the people who are on “the islands of the sea.” I have had three specific calls to serve and live on the islands of the sea. I first served as a young missionary to the British Isles, second as a new General Authority in the Philippine Islands, and then as Area President in the Pacific Islands, which includes many Polynesian islands.
All three of these areas have successfully gathered believers to the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. Missionaries first arrived in the British Isles in 1837. This was one year after Joseph Smith’s dedication of the Kirtland Temple, where Moses committed “the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north.”5 The early success in the British Isles is legendary. By 1851, over half the members of the Church were baptized converts living in the British Isles.6
In 1961, Elder Gordon B. Hinckley visited and initiated full-time missionary efforts in the Philippine Islands. At that time there was only one Filipino Melchizedek Priesthood holder. Amazingly, there are over 850,000 members of the Church today in the Philippine Islands. I admire the Filipino people; they have a deep and abiding love for the Savior.
Perhaps less well known is the ongoing missionary effort to the Polynesian Islands. It commenced in 1844 when Addison Pratt arrived in what is now French Polynesia.7 Many Polynesians already believed in eternal families and accepted Jesus Christ as their Savior. Today almost 25 percent of Polynesians, in the Polynesian Islands, are members of the Church.8
I once listened to a 17-year-old girl on a distant Tahitian island who was a seventh-generation member. She paid tribute to her ancestors who had been converted in 1845 on Tubuai, two years before early Church members arrived in the Salt Lake Valley.9
Our doctrine is clear that there will be a time and a season for all people to receive and to respond to the gospel message. These examples are just a part of a much larger picture. President Nelson has continuously emphasized that the gathering of Israel is “the greatest challenge, … cause, and … work on earth today.”10
Until the Restoration of the Church of Jesus Christ, including the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and the revelation and priesthood keys given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, understanding of the gathering of Israel was fragmentary and limited.11
The distinctive name “Israel” was the title conferred upon Jacob.12 It came to represent the posterity of Abraham through Isaac and Jacob. The original promise and covenant to Father Abraham is set forth in Abraham 2:9–10, which reads in part:
“And I will make of thee a great nation, …
“And I will bless [all nations] through thy name; for as many as receive this Gospel shall be called after thy name, and shall be accounted thy seed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as their father.”
During the Council in Heaven in the premortal existence, the plan of salvation was discussed and sustained. It included certain laws and ordinances of the priesthood instituted before the foundation of the world and predicated upon the gathering.13 It also included the overriding principle of agency.
After several centuries as a powerful people, including the reigns of Saul, David, and Solomon, Israel was divided. The tribe of Judah and part of the tribe of Benjamin became the kingdom of Judah. The remainder, identified as the ten tribes, became the kingdom of Israel.14 After 200 years of separate existence, the first scattering of Israel occurred in 721 BC when the ten tribes of Israel were carried away captive by the Assyrian king.15 They later went to the north countries.16
In 600 BC at the commencement of the Book of Mormon, Father Lehi led a colony of Israelites to the Americas. Lehi understood the scattering of Israel of which he was a part. He is quoted by Nephi as saying that the house of Israel “should be compared like unto an olive tree, whose branches should be broken off and should be scattered upon all the face of the earth.”17
In the so-called New World, the history of the Nephites and Lamanites as set forth in the Book of Mormon ends in approximately AD 400. Descendants of Father Lehi are spread throughout the Americas.18
This is clearly described by Mormon in 3 Nephi 5:20, which reads: “I am Mormon, and a pure descendant of Lehi. I have reason to bless my God and my Savior Jesus Christ, that he brought our fathers out of the land of Jerusalem.”19 
Clearly the high point in Israel’s chronological history is the birth, message, ministry, and mission of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.20
After the Savior’s eternity-shaping death and Resurrection, a second well-known scattering of Judah occurred between AD 70 and AD 135 when, due to Roman oppression and persecution, the Jews dispersed throughout the then-known world.
President Nelson has taught, “The Book of Mormon came forth as a sign that the Lord had commenced to gather [the] children of the covenant.”21 Thus, the Book of Mormon, translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith through the gift and power of God, is directed to Lehi’s descendants, scattered Israel, and Gentiles who are adopted into the tribes of Israel. The chapter heading to 1 Nephi 22 reads in part, “Israel will be scattered upon all the face of the earth—The Gentiles will nurse and nourish Israel with the gospel in the last days.” The Book of Mormon title page reads that one of the book’s purposes is for “the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ.” With the Restoration and Book of Mormon, the concept of gathering Israel has greatly expanded.22
Those who accept the gospel of Jesus Christ, regardless of lineage, become part of gathered Israel.23 With that gathering and the numerous temples built and announced, we are in a unique position to gather Israel on both sides of the veil as never before under the Father’s plan.
President Spencer W. Kimball, speaking of the literal gathering of Israel, stated: “Now, the gathering of Israel consists of joining the true church and … coming to a knowledge of the true God. … Any person, therefore, who has accepted the restored gospel, and who now seeks to worship the Lord in his own tongue and with the Saints in the nations where he lives, has complied with the law of the gathering of Israel and is heir to all of the blessings promised the Saints in these last days.”24
“The gathering of Israel now involves conversion.”25
As viewed through a clear lens, members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have the great privilege of loving, sharing, inviting, and helping gather Israel to receive the fulness of the Lord’s covenant blessings. This includes Africans and Europeans, South and North Americans, Asians, Australians, and those upon the isles of the sea. “For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men.”26 “This gathering shall continue until the righteous are assembled in the congregations of the Saints in the nations of the world.”27
No one has addressed the gathering more directly than President Russell M. Nelson: “Anytime you do anything that helps anyone﻿—on either side of the veil﻿—take a step toward making covenants with God and receiving their essential baptismal and temple ordinances, you are helping to gather Israel. It is as simple as that.”28
Where is the Church today? In the 62 years since I commenced serving a mission in 1960, the number of full-time missionaries serving under a call from the prophet has increased from 7,683 to 62,544. The number of missions has increased from 58 to 411. The number of members has increased from approximately 1,700,000 to approximately 17,000,000.
The COVID-19 pandemic temporarily impacted some of our opportunities to share the gospel. It also provided experience using new technology, which will greatly enhance the gathering. We are grateful that members and missionaries are now expanding efforts to gather scattered Israel. Growth continues everywhere, especially South America and Africa. We also appreciate that so many across the world have responded to President Nelson’s powerful invitation for increased missionary service. Nevertheless, our commitment to love, share, and invite can be greatly expanded.
An essential part of this missionary effort is for individual members to become beacon-light examples29 wherever we live.30 We cannot be in camouflage. Our Christlike example of kindness, righteousness, happiness, and sincere love for all peoples can create not only a guiding beacon light for them but also an understanding that there is a safe harbor in the ordinances of salvation and exaltation of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
Please understand that there are remarkable blessings in sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ. The scriptures speak of joy and peace, forgiveness of sins, protection from temptations, and sustaining power from God.31 Looking beyond this mortal life, we will be prepared to share the gospel with those “in darkness and under the bondage of sin in the great world of the spirits of the dead.”32
My specific prayer today is for every child, young man, young woman, family, quorum, Relief Society, and class to review how we individually and collectively accept dramatic counsel to help gather Israel that has been issued by the Lord and our beloved prophet.
We respect agency. In this secular world, many will not respond and participate in the gathering of Israel. But many will, and the Lord expects those who have received His gospel to urgently strive to be a beacon-light example that will help others come to God. This allows our brothers and sisters across the earth to enjoy the supernal blessings and ordinances of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ and be safely gathered home.
I bear my sure and certain apostolic witness of the divinity of Jesus Christ and our Father in Heaven’s plan for us in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Russell M. Nelson, “Welcome Message,” Liahona, May 2021, 7.


See Doctrine and Covenants 20:37.


See 2 Nephi 26:33.


Doctrine and Covenants 1:1. In Doctrine and Covenants 1:4, the Lord continues, “And the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days.”


Doctrine and Covenants 110:11.


In 1851, there were 52,165 total members of the Church. According to Church records and the “Religious Census of 1851” in England and Wales, there were over 28,000 members in those locations (see Robert L. Lively Jr., “Some Sociological Reflections on the Nineteenth-Century British Mission,” in Mormons in Early Victorian Britain, ed. Richard L. Jensen and Malcolm R. Thorp [1989], 19–20).


See Saints: The Story of the Church of Jesus Christ in the Latter Days, vol. 1, The Standard of Truth, 1815–1846 (2018), 494–95, 514–15, 573.


Tonga: 45 percent; Samoa: 31 percent; American Samoa: 22.5 percent; and French Polynesia: 7 percent.


See Saints, 573–74.


Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel” (worldwide youth devotional, June 3, 2018), HopeofIsrael.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


This unique and powerful doctrine is contained in the Book of Mormon and succinctly in the tenth article of faith, which begins, “We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes” (see James E. Talmage, The Articles of Faith, 12th ed. [1924], 314–44).


As recorded in Genesis 32:28, the scriptural account reads, “Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men.”


See Joseph Smith, in “History, 1838–1856, volume D-1,” 1572, josephsmithpapers.org; see also Joseph Smith, “Discourse, 11 June 1843–A, as Reported by Wilford Woodruff,” [42–43], josephsmithpapers.org; Joseph Smith, “Discourse, 11 June 1843–A, as Reported by Willard Richards,” [241], josephsmithpapers.org.


See Bible Dictionary, “Israel, Kingdom of”; James E. Talmage, The Articles of Faith, 315. Rehoboam and his subjects were known as the kingdom of Judah and were located in the southern part of modern Israel.


See 2 Kings 17:23.


See Doctrine and Covenants 133:26; see also Doctrine and Covenants 110:11.


1 Nephi 10:12. Ammon later said, “Blessed is the name of my God, who has been mindful of this people, who are a branch of the tree of Israel, and has been lost from its body in a strange land” (Alma 26:36).


President Spencer W. Kimball, speaking of Lamanite Israel, taught that Zion is all the Americas. He said, “We are in Israel and are being gathered” (The Teachings of Spencer W. Kimball, ed. Edward L. Kimball [1982], 439).


When Father Lehi was instructed to take his family and depart into the wilderness, at least part of the reason was that Jerusalem would be destroyed (see 1 Nephi 2). The destruction of Solomon’s Temple, the downfall of Jerusalem, and the captivity of the tribe of Judah occurred in about 586 BC. 
“Israel was conquered in about 720 B.C.E., and its 10 tribes driven into exile. … [In Jerusalem,] Solomon’s Temple sustained several attacks by foreign powers before finally, in 586 B.C.E., being totally destroyed by the army of Nebuchadnezzar, the Babylonian king” (David B. Green, “The History of the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem,” Haaretz, Aug. 11, 2014, haaretz.com/jewish/.premium-history-of-the-temple-in-jerusalem-1.5256337). See also 2 Kings 25:8–9.


See Tad R. Callister, The Infinite Atonement (2000).


Russell M. Nelson, “Children of the Covenant,” Ensign, May 1995, 33; see also “Covenants,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2011, 88.


See Russell M. Nelson, in R. Scott Lloyd, “Seminar for New Mission Presidents: ‘Swift Messengers’ to Scattered Israel,” Church News, July 13, 2013, thechurchnews.com. President Nelson has stated that the gathering “is not a matter of physical location; it is a matter of individual commitment. People can be ‘brought to the knowledge of the Lord’ [3 Nephi 20:13] without leaving their homelands” (“The Gathering of Scattered Israel,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2006, 81). See also 3 Nephi 21:1–7.


Our doctrine is clear; the Lord scattered the tribes of Israel because of their rebellion and their unrighteousness. However, the Lord also utilized the scattering of His chosen people among the nations of the world to bless those nations. (See Guide to the Scriptures, “Israel—The Scattering of Israel,” scriptures.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.)


Spencer W. Kimball, The Teachings of Spencer W. Kimball, 439.


Summary heading in Spencer W. Kimball, The Teachings of Spencer W. Kimball, 438. See also “All Are Alike unto God,” ed. E. Dale LeBaron (1990), a collection of 23 conversion stories by Black African Latter-day Saints. Sister Julia N. Mavimbela said that before she joined the Church and came to the word Israel, she would “throw the book aside and say, ‘It is for the whites. It is not for us. We are not chosen.’ Today I know I belong to a royal family, if I live righteously. I am an Israelite, and when I was doing my ordinances in the temple, I captured the feeling that we are all on earth as one family” (in “All Are Alike unto God,” 151).


Doctrine and Covenants 1:2.


Spencer W. Kimball, The Teachings of Spencer W. Kimball, 438.


Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel.”


The Apostle Paul told his young friend Timothy to “be … an example of the believers” (1 Timothy 4:12).


See 3 Nephi 18:24.


See Mosiah 18:8–13; 3 Nephi 18:25; Doctrine and Covenants 18:10–16; 31:5; 62:3.


Doctrine and Covenants 138:57.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"A Living Prophet for the Latter Days","year":"2023","month":"04"}



A Living Prophet for the Latter Days

By Elder Allen D. Haynie
Of the Seventy

Father in Heaven has chosen the pattern of revealing truth to His children through a prophet.


When I was a young boy, I loved Saturday because everything I did on that day seemed like an adventure. But no matter what I did, it was always preceded by the most important thing of all—watching cartoons on television. One such Saturday morning, as I was standing by the television and flipping through channels, I discovered that the cartoon I expected to find had been replaced by a broadcast of the general conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. While looking at the television and lamenting that there was no cartoon, I saw a white-haired man in a suit and tie sitting in a nice chair.
There was something different about him, so I asked my oldest brother, “Who is that?”
He said, “That’s President David O. McKay; he’s a prophet.”
I remember feeling something and somehow knowing that he was a prophet. Then, because I was a cartoon-crazed young boy, I changed the channel. But I’ve never forgotten what I felt during that brief, unexpected revelatory moment. With a prophet, sometimes it only takes a moment to know.1
Knowing by revelation that there is a living prophet on the earth changes everything.2 It causes one to be uninterested in the debate about when is a prophet speaking as a prophet or whether one is ever justified in selective rejection of prophetic counsel.3 Such revealed knowledge invites one to trust the counsel of a living prophet, even if we do not fully understand it.4 After all, a perfect and loving Father in Heaven has chosen the pattern of revealing truth to His children through a prophet, someone who never sought such a sacred calling and who has no need of our help to be aware of his own imperfections.5 A prophet is someone God has personally prepared, called, corrected, inspired, rebuked, sanctified, and sustained.6 That is why we are never spiritually at risk in following prophetic counsel.
Whether we like it or not, all of us were chosen in some fashion in the pre-earth life to be born in these latter days. There are two realities that are associated with the latter days. The first reality is that Christ’s Church will be reestablished on the earth. The second reality is that things are going to get really challenging. The scriptures reveal that in the last days there will be “a great hailstorm sent forth to destroy the crops of the earth,”7 plagues,8 “wars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, … and iniquity shall abound.”9
When I was a child, those prophecies of the last days scared me and caused me to pray that the Second Coming would not come in my lifetime—with some success I might add so far. But now I pray for the opposite, even though the prophesied challenges are assured,10 because when Christ returns to reign, all of His creations will “lie down safely.”11
Current conditions in the world have caused some to panic. As God’s covenant children, we do not need to chase after this or that to know how to navigate through these troubled times. We do not need to fear.12 The doctrine and principles that we must follow to survive spiritually and endure physically are found in the words of a living prophet.13 That is why President M. Russell Ballard declared that “it is no small thing … to have a prophet of God in our midst.”14
President Russell M. Nelson has testified that “God’s long-established pattern of teaching His children through prophets assures us that He will bless each prophet and that He will bless those who heed prophetic counsel.”15 So the key is to follow the living prophet.16 Brothers and sisters, unlike vintage comic books and classic cars, prophetic teachings do not become more valuable with age. That is why we should not seek to use the words of past prophets to dismiss the teachings of living prophets.17
I love the parables used by Jesus Christ to teach gospel principles. I would like to share a real-life parable of sorts with you this morning.
One day I walked into the cafeteria at Church headquarters to have some lunch. After getting a tray of food, I entered the dining area and noticed a table at which all three members of the First Presidency were seated, along with one empty chair. My insecurities caused me to make a quick detour away from that table, and then I heard the voice of our prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, saying, “Allen, there’s an empty chair right here. Come and sit down with us.” And so I did. 
Near the end of the lunch, I was surprised to hear a loud crunching noise, and when I looked up, I saw that President Nelson had stood his plastic water bottle straight up and then flattened it and replaced the lid. 
President Dallin H. Oaks then asked the question I wanted to ask, “President Nelson, why did you flatten your plastic water bottle?” 
He replied, “It makes it easier for those who are handling recyclable materials because it doesn’t take up as much space in the recycling container.” 
While pondering that response, I heard the same crunching sound again. I looked to my right, and President Oaks had flattened his plastic water bottle just like President Nelson. I then heard some noise to my left, and President Henry B. Eyring was flattening his plastic water bottle, although he had adopted a different strategy by doing it while the bottle was horizontal, which took more effort than with the bottle straight up. Noticing this, President Nelson kindly showed him the bottle-straight-up technique to more easily flatten the bottle. 
At that point, I leaned over to President Oaks and quietly asked, “Is flattening your plastic water bottle a new recycling requirement of the cafeteria?” 
President Oaks responded, with a smile on his face, “Well, Allen, you need to follow the prophet.”
I’m confident that President Nelson was not declaring some new recycling-based doctrine in the cafeteria that day. But we can learn from the prompt response18 of President Oaks and President Eyring to President Nelson’s example and President Nelson’s attentiveness to help teach those involved a better way.19
A number of years ago, Elder Neal A. Maxwell shared some observations and counsel that are prophetically on point with respect to our day:
“In the months and years ahead, events are likely to require each member to decide whether or not he [or she] will follow the First Presidency. Members will find it more difficult to halt longer between two opinions. …
“… Let us leave a record so that the choices are clear, letting others do as they will in the face of prophetic counsel. … 
“Jesus said that when the fig trees put forth their leaves, ‘summer is nigh.’ … Thus warned that summer is upon us, let us not then complain of the heat!”20

The rising generation is growing up in a time when there are more fig leaves and there is more heat. That reality imposes a weightier responsibility on the already risen generation, particularly when it comes to following prophetic counsel. When parents ignore the counsel of the living prophet, they not only lose the promised blessings for themselves but even more tragically teach their children that what a prophet says is insignificant or that prophetic counsel can be picked through in a smorgasbord fashion without concern for the resulting spiritual malnutrition. 
Elder Richard L. Evans once observed: “Some parents mistakenly feel that they can relax a little as to conduct and conformity … that they can ease up a little on the fundamentals without affecting their family or their family’s future. But if a parent goes a little off course, the children are likely to exceed the parent’s example.”21
As a generation that has the sacred charge to prepare the rising generation for its prophesied role in the latter days,22 which role must be fulfilled in a time when the adversary’s influence is at its peak,23 we cannot be a source of confusion about the importance of following prophetic counsel. It is that very counsel that will allow the rising generation to see “the enemy while he [is] yet afar off; and then [they can make] ready” to withstand the enemy’s attack.24 Our seemingly small deviations, quiet neglect, or whispered criticisms in response to prophetic counsel may result in our only walking dangerously near the edge of the covenant path; but when magnified by the adversary in the lives of the rising generation, such actions may influence them to leave that path altogether. Such a result is a generational price that is too high.25
Some of you may feel you have fallen short in your efforts to follow the counsel of President Russell M. Nelson. If that is the case, then repent; begin again to follow the counsel of God’s chosen prophet. Set aside the distraction of childish cartoons and trust the Lord’s anointed. Rejoice because once again “there is a prophet in Israel.”26
Even if you are unsure, I witness that we can withstand the heat of the latter days and even thrive in them. We are the Saints of the latter days, and these are great days. We were anxious to come to the earth at this time, having confidence that we would not be left to stumble when confronted by the adversary’s increasingly darker and more confusing mists27 but rather to take counsel and direction from he who is authorized to say to us and the entire world, “Thus saith the Lord God.”28 In the sacred name of the prophet whom God raised up, the Holy One of Israel,29 even Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


President Russell M. Nelson recently invited the students at Brigham Young University to have the same personal revelatory experience: “Ask your Heavenly Father if we truly are the Lord’s apostles and prophets. Ask if we have received revelation on this and other matters” (“The Love and Laws of God” [Brigham Young University devotional, Sept. 17, 2019], speeches.byu.edu). See also Neil L. Andersen, “The Prophet of God,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 26–27: “We have the privilege as Latter-day Saints to receive a personal witness that President Nelson’s call is from God.” The story of Alma’s conversion from listening to the prophet Abinadi provides further evidence that revelation concerning a prophet is available to all of us (see Mosiah 13:5; 17:2).


“We either have a prophet or we have nothing; and having a prophet, we have everything” (Gordon B. Hinckley, “We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet,” Ensign, Jan. 1974, 122).


“They began to disbelieve in the spirit of prophecy and in the spirit of revelation; and the judgments of God did stare them in the face” (Helaman 4:23; see also Doctrine and Covenants 11:25). “We sing and have done so constantly, ‘We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet to guide us in these latter days.’ There are a great many who [ought to] put a postscript to that and say: ‘Provided he guides us to suit our own fancies and our own whims’” (Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Heber J. Grant [2002], 80).


“Sometimes we will receive counsel that we cannot understand or that seems not to apply to us, even after careful prayer and thought. Don’t discard the counsel, but hold it close. If someone you trusted handed you what appeared to be nothing more than sand with the promise that it contained gold, you might wisely hold it in your hand awhile, shaking it gently. Every time I have done that with counsel from a prophet, after a time the gold flakes have begun to appear and I have been grateful” (Henry B. Eyring, “Finding Safety in Counsel,” Ensign, May 1997, 26; see also 3 Nephi 1:13; Doctrine and Covenants 1:14).


See 2 Nephi 4:17–18. “Condemn me not because of mine imperfection, neither my father, because of his imperfection, … but rather give thanks unto God that he hath made manifest unto you our imperfections, that ye may learn to be more wise than we have been” (Mormon 9:31).


See Doctrine and Covenants 3:6–8; see also Doctrine and Covenants 93:47.


Doctrine and Covenants 29:16.


See Doctrine and Covenants 84:97; see also Doctrine and Covenants 87:6.


Doctrine and Covenants 45:26, 27.


See Doctrine and Covenants 1:38.


Hosea 2:18. “For I will reveal myself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand” (Doctrine and Covenants 29:11).


See 1 Nephi 22:16–17; see also Doctrine and Covenants 59:23.


“For behold, they have rejected the words of the prophets. Wherefore, if my father should dwell in the land after he hath been commanded to flee out of the land, behold, he would also perish” (1 Nephi 3:18; see also 2 Nephi 26:3; Doctrine and Covenants 90:5).


M. Russell Ballard, “His Word Ye Shall Receive,” Ensign, May 2001, 65; Liahona, July 2001, 65.


Russell M. Nelson, “Ask, Seek, Knock,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2009, 82. “No man can be more happy than by obeying the living prophet’s counsel” (The Teachings of Lorenzo Snow, ed. Clyde J. Williams [1996], 86).


“Keep your eye upon those who preside in the Church today, or tomorrow, and pattern your life after them rather than to dwell upon how ancient prophets may have looked or thought or spoken” (The Teachings of Harold B. Lee [1996], 525).


President Spencer W. Kimball once observed that “they who garnish the sepulchers of the dead prophets begin now by stoning the living ones” (The Teachings of Spencer W. Kimball, ed. Edward L. Kimball [1982], 462). “The most important words we can hear, ponder, and follow are those revealed through our living prophet” (Ronald A. Rasband, “The Things of My Soul,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 40).


“When we hear the counsel of the Lord expressed through the words of the President of the Church, our response should be positive and prompt” (M. Russell Ballard, “His Word Ye Shall Receive,” Ensign, May 2001, 65; Liahona, July 2001, 65).


“The Church of Jesus Christ has always been led by living prophets and apostles. Though mortal and subject to human imperfection, the Lord’s servants are inspired to help us avoid obstacles that are spiritually life threatening and to help us pass safely through mortality to our final, ultimate, heavenly destination” (M. Russell Ballard, “God Is at the Helm,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2015, 24).


Neal A. Maxwell, “A More Determined Discipleship,” Ensign, Feb. 1979, 69, 70.


Richard L. Evans, “Foundations of a Happy Home,” in Conference Report, Oct. 1964, 135–36.


See Doctrine and Covenants 123:11; see also Robert D. Hales, “Our Duty to God: The Mission of Parents and Leaders to the Rising Generation,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2010, 95–98.


See Doctrine and Covenants 52:14.


Doctrine and Covenants 101:54.


See Mosiah 26:1–4.


2 Kings 5:8.


“Thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, … for by doing these things … the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name’s glory” (Doctrine and Covenants 21:4, 6). “No man who ever followed the teachings or took advice or counsel from the one who stands as the representative of the Lord ever went astray” (Doctrines of Salvation: Sermons and Writings of Joseph Fielding Smith, ed. Bruce R. McConkie [1998], 243).


Ezekiel 3:27. “For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith” (Doctrine and Covenants 21:5).


See 1 Nephi 22:20–21; see also 3 Nephi 20:23.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Finding Personal Peace","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Finding Personal Peace

By President Henry B. Eyring
Second Counselor in the First Presidency

I pray that you may find peace, help many others to find it, and pass it along.


My dear brothers and sisters, we have been blessed by the inspired teachings and the beautiful music that have touched us in this opening session of general conference. We thank you for your participation and for your faith.
Today I will speak on what I have learned about the miracle of finding personal peace, whatever our circumstances. The Savior knows that all of Heavenly Father’s children yearn for peace, and He said that He could give it to us. You remember the words of Jesus Christ recorded in the book of John: “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.”1
What He means by peace and how He can give it are revealed by the circumstances of those who heard Him speak those words. Listen to the account in John of the culmination of Christ’s ministry. Fierce forces of evil were bearing down on Him and would soon come upon His disciples.
Here are the Savior’s words:
“If ye love me, keep my commandments.
“And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever;
“Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.
“I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.
“Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me: because I live, ye shall live also.
“At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you.
“He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.
“Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world?
“Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him.
“He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father’s which sent me.
“These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you.
“But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.
“Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.”2
I have learned at least five truths from that teaching of the Savior.
First, the gift of peace is given after we have the faith to keep His commandments. For those who are covenant members of the Lord’s Church, obedience is what we have already promised to do.
Second, the Holy Ghost will come and abide with us. The Lord says that as we continue to be faithful, the Holy Ghost will dwell in us. That is the promise in the sacramental prayer that the Spirit will be our companion and that we will feel, in our hearts and minds, His comfort.
Third, the Savior promises that as we keep our covenants, we can feel the love of the Father and the Son for each other and for us. We can feel Their closeness in our mortal lives, just as we will when we are blessed to be with Them forever.
Fourth, keeping the Lord’s commandments requires more than obedience. We are to love God with all our heart, might, mind, and soul.3
Those who do not love Him do not keep His commandments. And so they will not have the gift of peace in this life and in the world to come.
Fifth, it is clear that the Lord loved us enough to pay the price of our sins so that we can—through our faith in Him and our repentance, through the effects of His Atonement—have the gift of the peace that “passeth all understanding,”4 in this life and with Him eternally.
Some of you, perhaps many, are not feeling the peace the Lord promised. You may have prayed for personal peace and spiritual comfort. Yet you may feel that the heavens are silent to your pleading for peace.
There is an enemy of your soul who does not want you and those you love to find peace. He cannot enjoy it. He works to prevent you from even wanting to find the peace the Savior and our Heavenly Father desire you to have.
Satan’s efforts to sow hatred and contention all around us seem to be increasing. We see evidence of it happening among nations and cities, in neighborhoods, in electronic media, and all across the world.
Yet there is reason for optimism: it is that the Light of Christ is placed in every newborn child. With that universal gift comes a sense of what is right, a desire to love and be loved. There is an inborn sense of justice and truth in every child of God as he or she comes into mortality.
Our optimism for personal peace for those children lies in the people who care for them. If those who rear them and serve them have worked to receive the gift of peace from the Savior, they will, by personal example and effort, encourage the faith of the child to qualify for the supernal gift of peace.
That is what the scripture promises: “Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.”5 It will require the one charged with the child’s care and nurturing to be worthy of the gift of peace.
Sadly, we all have felt the pain when children raised by inspired parents—sometimes one parent alone—choose, after a lifetime of faith and peace, to take the path of sorrow.
Even when that sadness occurs, my optimism rests in another gift from the Lord. It is this: that He raises up many peacemakers among His trusted disciples. They have felt the peace and the love of God. They have the Holy Ghost in their hearts, and the Lord can guide them to reach out to the wandering sheep.
I have seen it over my lifetime and across the world. You have seen it as well. At times, when you are being led to the rescue, it may seem accidental.
Once, I simply asked someone I met on a trip, “Would you tell me a little about your family?” The conversation led me to ask to see a picture of her adult daughter, who she said was struggling. I was struck with the goodness in the face of that girl in the picture. I felt impressed to ask if I could have her email address. The daughter was at that moment lost and wondering if God had any message for her. He did. It was this: “The Lord loves you. He always has. The Lord wants you to come back. Your promised blessings are still in place.”
Members across the Church have felt the Lord’s gift of personal peace. He is encouraging everyone to help others have opportunities to come unto Him and qualify for that same peace themselves. They, in turn, will choose to seek inspiration to know how they can pass that gift along to others.
The rising generation will become the nurturers of the generation to follow. The multiplier effect will produce a miracle. It will spread and grow over time, and the Lord’s kingdom on earth will be prepared and ready to greet Him with shouts of hosanna. There will be peace on earth.
I bear my sure witness the Savior lives and that He leads this Church. I have felt His love in my life and His love and concern for all of Heavenly Father’s children. The Savior’s invitation to come to Him is an offer of peace.
President Russell M. Nelson is the living prophet of God in all the earth. He has said, “I give you my assurance that regardless of the world’s condition and your personal circumstances, you can face the future with optimism and joy.”6
I express my love to you. Your great faith and love are reaching people and allowing the Lord to change hearts and so gain a desire to offer others the gift of peace that passes all understanding.
I pray that you may find peace, help many others to find it, and pass it along. There will be a wonderful thousand years of peace when the Lord comes again. I so testify in joy and in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


John 14:27.


John 14:15–27.


See Deuteronomy 6:5; Matthew 22:37; Moroni 10:32.


Philippians 4:7.


Proverbs 22:6.


Russell M. Nelson, “Look Forward to the Future with Faith,” New Era, June 2018, 5.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers

Presented by President Dallin H. Oaks
First Counselor in the First Presidency



Brothers and sisters, it is my privilege to present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.
Please express your support in the usual way wherever you may be. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals, we ask that you contact your stake president.
It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.
Those in favor may manifest it.
Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
Those in favor, please signify.
Any opposed may manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.
Those in favor, please manifest it.
Any opposed may so indicate.
It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.
All in favor, please manifest it.
Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.
The following General Authority Seventies will be released from their assignments and given emeritus status, effective on August 1, 2023: Elders Benjamín De Hoyos, Juan A. Uceda, and Kazuhiko Yamashita.
Those who wish to express gratitude to these brethren and to their wives and families for their years of dedicated service throughout the world may do so by the uplifted hand.
The following Area Seventies have been released from their assignments, effective immediately: J. Kimo Esplin and Alan T. Phillips.
Those who wish to join us in expressing appreciation for their excellent service, please manifest it.
We note with appreciation the other Area Seventies who will complete their service this year and whose names can be found on the Church’s website.
Those who wish to join in expressing gratitude to these brethren for their selfless service may manifest it.
Effective immediately, we hereby release Brothers Ahmad S. Corbitt and Bradley Ray Wilcox from serving as First and Second Counselors in the Young Men General Presidency.
Those who wish to show appreciation to these brethren for their service may so manifest.
We extend releases to the Young Women General Presidency, effective on August 1, 2023, as follows: Bonnie H. Cordon as President, Michelle D. Craig as First Counselor, and Rebecca L. Craven as Second Counselor.
All who wish to join us in expressing appreciation to these sisters for their devoted service, please manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain the following as General Authority Seventies: Ahmad S. Corbitt, Robert M. Daines, J. Kimo Esplin, Christophe G. Giraud-Carrier, and Alan T. Phillips.
All in favor, please manifest it.
Those opposed, by the same sign.
We note that 61 new Area Seventies were sustained during the general conference leadership meetings on Thursday, March 30, and then announced on the Church’s website.
We invite you to sustain these brethren in their new assignments.
Those in favor, please manifest it.
Any opposed, by the same sign.
It is proposed that we sustain the following as the new Young Women General Presidency, to be effective on August 1, 2023: Emily Belle Freeman as President, Tamara Wood Runia as First Counselor, and Andrea Muñoz Spannaus as Second Counselor.
Those in favor may manifest it.
Any opposed may so signify.
It is proposed that we sustain the following as counselors in the Young Men General Presidency, effective immediately: Bradley Ray Wilcox as First Counselor and Michael T. Nelson as Second Counselor.
All in favor may manifest it.
Any opposed may so manifest.
It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers as presently constituted.
All in favor may do so by the uplifted hand.
Those opposed, if any.
Thank you, brothers and sisters, for your continued faith and prayers on behalf of the leadership of the Church.
Changes to Area Seventies
The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership session held as part of general conference:
Isaías Alcala, John D. Amos, Johnny O. Baddoo, Victor O. Bassey, Adrian Bettridge, A. Kaulle Bezerra, Carlos G. Cantero, Emerson B. Carnavale, Orlando A. Castaños, Bun Huoch Eng, Hutch U. Fale, Fernando R. García, Tomás García, C. Alan Gauldin, Aaron T. Hall, Darwin W. Halvorson, Jed J Hancock, Henry Herrera, Ndalamba Ilunga, Samuel M. T. Koivisto, Carlos J. Lantigua, Esau Lara, Stephen J. Larson, Thabo Lebethoa, G. Kenneth Lee, Israel Marin, Wayne E. Maurer, Lee G. McCann II, Robert Mendenhall, Adrian Mendez, Siyabonga Mkhize, Javier F. Monestel, Thomas B. Morgan, Jared V. Ormsby, Z. Rudy Palhua, Arturo D. Palmieri, Kenneth Pambu, Hugo O. Panameño, Kevin J. Parks, Paul Picard, David J. Pickett, Martin Pilka, Irineu E. Prado, Christopher R. Price, Miguel Ribeiro, James N. Robinson, Edward B. Rowe, Robert Schwartz, Gregory A. Scott, Dominic R. Sénéchal, Kofi G. Sosu, Michael B. Strong, Nithya Kumar Sunderraj, Thomas A. Thomas, Alejandro H. Treviño, Nefi M. Trujillo, Chimaroke G. Udeichi, Fernando Valdes, Helton C. Vecchi, Brent B. Ward, and Tomasito S. Zapanta.
The following Area Seventies will be released on or before August 1, 2023:
Richard K. Ahadjie, Duane D. Bell, Hubermann Bien Aimé, Víctor R. Calderón, Michel J. Carter, Daniel Córdova, John N. Craig, William H. K. Davis, Fernando P. Del Carpio, Richard J. DeVries, Kylar G. Dominguez, Torben Engbjerg, Kenneth J. Firmage, Edgar Flores, Silvio Flores, Carlos A. Genaro, Mark A. Gilmour, Sergio A. Gómez, Roberto Gonzalez, Virgilio Gonzalez, Spencer R. Griffin, Marcel Guei, Oleksiy H. Hakalenko, Matthew S. Harding, David J. Harris, Kevin J. Hathaway, José Hernández, Glenn M. Holmes, Richard Neitzel Holzapfel, Okechukwu I. Imo, Michael D. Jones, Pungwe S. Kongolo, Ricardo C. Leite, Aretemio C. Maligon, Edgar A. Mantilla, Lincoln P. Martins, Carl R. Maurer, Daniel S. Mehr II, Glen D. Mella, Tomas S. Merdegia Jr., Allistair B. Odgers, R. Jeffrey Parker, Victor P. Patrick, Denis E. Pineda, Henrique S. Simplicio, Jeffrey H. Singer, Michael L. Staheli, Jeffrey K. Wetzel, Michael S. Wilstead, and David L. Wright.

----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Church Auditing Department Report, 2022","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Church Auditing Department Report, 2022

Presented by Jared B. Larson
Managing Director, Church Auditing Department

To the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints


Dear Brethren: Directed by revelation, as recorded in section 120 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Council on the Disposition of the Tithes—composed of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Bishopric—authorizes the expenditure of Church funds. Church entities disburse funds in accordance with approved budgets, policies, and procedures.
Church Auditing, which consists of credentialed professionals and is independent of all other Church departments and entities, has responsibility to perform audits for the purpose of providing reasonable assurance regarding contributions received, expenditures made, and safeguarding of Church assets.
Based upon audits performed, Church Auditing is of the opinion that, in all material respects, contributions received, expenditures made, and assets of the Church for the year 2022 have been recorded and administered in accordance with Church-approved budgets, accounting practices, and policies. The Church follows the practices taught to its members of living within a budget, avoiding debt, and saving against a time of need.
Respectfully submitted,
Church Auditing Department
Jared B. Larson
Managing Director

----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Accessing God’s Power through Covenants","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Accessing God’s Power through Covenants

By Elder Dale G. Renlund
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

As you walk the covenant path, from baptism to the temple and throughout life, I promise you power to go against the natural worldly flow.


Last November, I had the privilege of dedicating the Belém Brazil Temple. It was a joy to be with the consecrated members of the Church in northern Brazil. At that time, I learned that Belém is the gateway to the region that includes the most powerful river in the world, the Amazon River.
Despite the river’s strength, twice a year something seemingly unnatural happens. When the sun, moon, and earth are aligned just so, a powerful tidal wave flows up the river, against the natural flow of the water. Waves up to 6 meters high1 traveling as far as 50 kilometers2 upstream have been documented. This phenomenon, known generally as a tidal bore, is referred to locally as pororoca, or “great roar,” because of the loud noise it makes. We can correctly conclude that even the mighty Amazon must yield to heavenly powers.
Like the Amazon, we have a natural flow to our lives; we tend to do what comes naturally. Like the Amazon, with heavenly help we can do seemingly unnatural things. After all, it is not natural for us to be humble, meek, or willing to submit our wills to God. Yet only by doing so can we be transformed, return to live in the presence of God, and achieve our eternal destiny.
Unlike the Amazon, we can choose whether we yield to heavenly powers or “go with the flow.”3 Going against the flow may be difficult. But when we yield “to the enticings of the Holy Spirit” and put off the selfish tendencies of the natural man or woman,4 we can receive the Savior’s transforming power in our lives, the power to do difficult things.
President Russell M. Nelson taught us how to do this. He promised, “Each person who makes covenants in baptismal fonts and in temples—and keeps them—has increased access to the power of Jesus Christ … [to lift] us above the pull of this fallen world.”5 In other words, we can access the power of God, but only when we connect with Him through sacred covenants.
Before the earth was created, God established covenants as the mechanism by which we, His children, could unite ourselves to Him. Based on eternal, unchanging law, He specified the nonnegotiable conditions whereby we are transformed, saved, and exalted. In this life, we make these covenants by participating in priesthood ordinances and promising to do what God asks us to do, and in return, God promises us certain blessings.6
A covenant is a pledge that we should prepare for, clearly understand, and absolutely honor.7 Making a covenant with God is different than casually making a promise. First, priesthood authority is required. Second, a feeble promise does not have the connecting strength to lift us above the pull of the natural flow. We make a covenant only when we intend to commit ourselves quite exceptionally to fulfilling it.8 We become covenant children of God and inheritors of His kingdom, especially when we identify ourselves completely with the covenant.
The term covenant path refers to a series of covenants whereby we come to Christ and connect to Him. Through this covenant bond, we have access to His eternal power. The path begins with faith in Jesus Christ and repentance, followed by baptism and receiving the Holy Ghost.9 Jesus Christ showed us how to enter the path when He was baptized.10 According to the New Testament Gospel accounts in Mark and Luke, Heavenly Father spoke directly to Jesus at His baptism, saying, “Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased.” When we embark on the covenant path through baptism, I can imagine Heavenly Father saying a similar thing to each of us: “Thou art my dear child in whom I delight. Keep going.”11
At baptism and when we partake of the sacrament,12 we witness that we are willing to take on ourselves the name of Jesus Christ.13 In this context, let us be mindful of the Old Testament commandment, “Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain.”14 To our modern ears, this sounds like a prohibition against irreverently using the Lord’s name. The commandment includes that, but its injunction is even more profound. The Hebrew word translated as “take” means to “lift up” or “carry,” as one would a banner that identifies oneself with an individual or group.15 The word translated as “vain” means “empty” or “deceptive.”16 The commandment to not take the Lord’s name in vain can thus mean, “You should not identify yourself as a disciple of Jesus Christ unless you intend to represent Him well.”
We become His disciples and represent Him well when we intentionally and incrementally take on ourselves the name of Jesus Christ through covenants. Our covenants give us power to stay on the covenant path because our relationship with Jesus Christ and our Heavenly Father is changed. We are connected to Them by a covenantal bond.
The covenant path leads to the ordinances of the temple, such as the temple endowment.17 The endowment is God’s gift of sacred covenants that connect us more fully to Him. In the endowment, we covenant, first, to strive to keep the commandments of God; second, to repent with a broken heart and contrite spirit; third, to live the gospel of Jesus Christ. We do this by exercising faith in Him, making covenants with God as we receive the ordinances of salvation and exaltation, keeping those covenants throughout our lives, and striving to live the two great commandments to love God and neighbor. We covenant, fourth, to keep the law of chastity and, fifth, to dedicate ourselves and everything the Lord blesses us with to build up His Church.18
By making and keeping temple covenants, we learn more about the Lord’s purposes and receive a fulness of the Holy Ghost.19 We receive direction for our lives. We mature in our discipleship so that we do not remain perpetual, unknowing children.20 Rather, we live with an eternal perspective and are more motivated to serve God and others. We receive increased capacity to fulfill our purposes in mortality. We are protected from evil,21 and we gain greater power to resist temptation and to repent when we stumble.22 When we falter, the memory of our covenants with God helps us return to the path. By connecting to God’s power, we become our own pororoca, able to go against the flow of the world, throughout our lives and into the eternities. Ultimately, our destinies are changed because the covenant path leads to exaltation and eternal life.23

Keeping covenants made in baptismal fonts and in temples also provides us with strength to withstand mortality’s trials and heartaches.24 The doctrine associated with these covenants eases our way and provides hope, comfort, and peace.
My grandparents Lena Sofia and Matts Leander Renlund received God’s power through their baptismal covenant when they joined the Church in 1912 in Finland. They were happy to be part of the first branch of the Church in Finland.
Leander died from tuberculosis five years later when Lena was pregnant with their tenth child. That child, my father, was born two months after Leander’s death. Lena eventually buried not just her husband but also seven of her ten children. As an impoverished widow, she struggled. For 20 years she did not get a good night’s rest. During the day, she scrambled to provide food for her family. At night, she took care of dying family members. It is hard to imagine how she coped.
Lena persevered because she knew that her deceased husband and children could be hers through the eternities. The doctrine of temple blessings, including that of eternal families, brought her peace because she trusted in the sealing power. While in mortality, she neither received her endowment nor was she sealed to Leander, but Leander remained a vital influence in her life and part of her great hope for the future.
In 1938, Lena submitted records so that temple ordinances could be performed for her deceased family members, some of the earliest submitted from Finland. After she died, temple ordinances were performed by others for her, Leander, and her deceased children. By proxy, she was endowed, Lena and Leander were sealed to each other, and their deceased children and my father were sealed to them. Like others, Lena “died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, … [was] persuaded of them, and embraced them.”25
Lena lived as though she had already made these covenants in her life. She knew that her baptismal and sacramental covenants connected her to the Savior. She “let the sweet longing for [the Redeemer’s] holy place bring hope to [her] desolate heart.”26 Lena considered it one of God’s great mercies that she learned about eternal families before experiencing the tragedies in her life. Through covenant, she received the power of God to endure and rise above the depressive pull of her challenges and hardships.
As you walk the covenant path, from baptism to the temple and throughout life, I promise you power to go against the natural worldly flow—power to learn, power to repent and be sanctified, and power to find hope, comfort, and even joy as you face life’s challenges. I promise you and your family protection against the influence of the adversary, especially when you make the temple a major focus in your life.
As you come to Christ and are connected to Him and our Heavenly Father by covenant, something seemingly unnatural happens. You are transformed and become perfected in Jesus Christ.27 You become a covenant child of God and an inheritor in His kingdom.28 I can imagine Him saying to you, “Thou art my dear child in whom I delight. Welcome home.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Approximately 20 feet.


Approximately 30 miles.


We have a choice because God has given us the privilege to choose and act for ourselves. See Guide to the Scriptures, “Agency,” scriptures.ChurchofJesusChrist.org; 2 Nephi 2:27; Moses 7:32.


See Mosiah 3:19.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 96, 97.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Covenant,” scriptures.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


Everyone stumbles on occasion, but God is patient with our stumbles and has given us the gift of repentance even after breaking a covenant. As Elder Richard G. Scott taught, “The Lord sees weaknesses differently than He [sees] rebellion … [because] when the Lord speaks of weaknesses, it is always with mercy” (“Personal Strength through the Atonement of Jesus Christ,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2013, 83). Thus, we should not doubt the Savior’s ability to help us with our weaknesses. However, consciously breaking a covenant with the callous plan to repent afterwards—in other words, preplanned sin and repentance—is repugnant to the Lord (see Hebrews 6:4–6).


See Robert Bolt, A Man for All Seasons: A Play in Two Acts (1990), xiii–xiv, 140.


See 2 Nephi 31:17–18.


See 2 Nephi 31:4–15.


Luke records, “And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased” (Luke 3:22). Mark records, “And there came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased” (Mark 1:11). William Tyndale’s translation is even more vivid and intimate than the King James Version. In his translation, the voice of Heavenly Father says, “Thou arte my dear Son in whom I delyghte” (in Brian Moynahan, God’s Bestseller: William Tyndale, Thomas More, and the Writing of the English Bible—A Story of Martyrdom and Betrayal [2002], 58). Only Matthew reports that the voice was more generally directed, saying, “And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased” (Matthew 3:17). The Gospel of John reports only of the baptism by John the Baptist: “And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God” (John 1:34).


See 2 Nephi 31:13; Doctrine and Covenants 20:77.


President Dallin H. Oaks explained the importance of the term “willing” as we renew our baptismal covenant with the sacrament: “It is significant that when we partake of the sacrament we do not witness that we take upon us the name of Jesus Christ. We witness that we are willing to do so. [See Doctrine and Covenants 20:77.] The fact that we only witness to our willingness suggests that something else must happen before we actually take that sacred name upon us in the most important sense” (“Taking upon Us the Name of Jesus Christ,” Ensign, May 1985, 81). The “something else” refers to temple blessings and future exaltation.


Exodus 20:7.


See James Strong, The New Strong’s Expanded Exhaustive Concordance of the Bible (2010), Hebrew dictionary section, page 192, number 5375.


See Strong, The New Strong’s Expanded Exhaustive Concordance of the Bible, Hebrew dictionary section, page 273, number 7723.


Elder David A. Bednar taught: “The baptismal covenant clearly contemplates a future event or events and looks forward to the temple. … The process of taking upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ that is commenced in the waters of baptism is continued and enlarged in the house of the Lord. As we stand in the waters of baptism, we look to the temple. As we partake of the sacrament, we look to the temple. We pledge to always remember the Savior and to keep His commandments as preparation to participate in the sacred ordinances of the temple and receive the highest blessings available through the name and by the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. Thus, in the ordinances of the holy temple we more completely and fully take upon us the name of Jesus Christ” (“Honorably Hold a Name and Standing,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2009, 98). The process is probably not complete until “we shall be like him” (Moroni 7:48), when we have fully been transformed.


As explained in the General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 27.2 (ChurchofJesusChrist.org), the covenants are to live the law of obedience, obey the law of sacrifice, obey the law of the gospel of Jesus Christ, keep the law of chastity, and keep the law of consecration; see also David A. Bednar, “Let This House Be Built unto My Name,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2020, 84–87.


See Doctrine and Covenants 109:14–15. Elder D. Todd Christofferson taught, “The ‘fulness of the Holy Ghost’ includes what Jesus described as ‘the promise which I give unto you of eternal life, even the glory of the celestial kingdom; which glory is that of the church of the Firstborn, even of God, the holiest of all, through Jesus Christ his Son’ (D&amp;C 88:4–5)” (“The Power of Covenants,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2009, 23, note 5).


See Doctrine and Covenants 109:15.


See Doctrine and Covenants 109:22, 25–26.


See Doctrine and Covenants 109:21.


See Doctrine and Covenants 109:15, 22; Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 98.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” 96; Doctrine and Covenants 84:20. Notably, President Nelson said, “Each time you seek for and follow the promptings of the Spirit, each time you do anything good—things that ‘the natural man’ would not do—you are overcoming the world” (“Overcome the World and Find Rest,” 97).


Hebrews 11:13.


“Redeemer of Israel,” Hymns, no. 6, verse 5. This was Lena Sofia Renlund’s favorite hymn.


See Moroni 10:30–33.


See Doctrine and Covenants 132:19–20.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"He Could Heal Me!","year":"2023","month":"04"}



He Could Heal Me!

By Elder Peter F. Meurs
Of the Seventy

The Savior’s healing and redeeming power applies to accidental mistakes, poor decisions, challenges, and trials of every kind—as well as to our sins.


Moroni promises that if we read the Book of Mormon and then ask God the Eternal Father with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ if it is true, God will manifest its truth by the power of the Holy Ghost.1 Millions of people have applied this promise and received an assuring witness of the Restoration of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Moroni exhorts us, as we read the Book of Mormon, to “remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam even down until [this] time, … and [to] ponder it in [our] hearts.”2 The stories and teachings in the Book of Mormon remind us and testify of the Savior’s love, compassion, and mercy.
My father passed away in April 2013. As I prepared to speak at his funeral, I realized how blessed I was to know and love his favorite scriptures. He shared them in family gatherings, and he read them with me when I needed counsel, guidance, or strengthening of my faith. I heard him share them in talks and assignments. I not only knew them, but I can still remember the sound of his voice and the spiritual feelings I had as he shared them. Through sharing scriptures and feelings, my father helped me to establish a firm foundation of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.
My father particularly loved the account of the Savior’s visit to the people of Nephi.3 This sacred account is of the resurrected and exalted Lord Jesus Christ. He had drunk of the bitter cup and suffered all things so that we would not suffer if we would repent.4 He had visited the spirit world and organized the preaching of the gospel there.5 He had risen from the dead, and He had been with and received commandments from the Father to share scriptures with the Nephites that would bless future generations.6 He was exalted and had all of His eternal power and capacity. We can learn from every detail of His teachings.
In 3 Nephi 11, we read how the Savior descended out of heaven to teach the Nephites that He was Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified would come into the world. He declared that He was the Light of the World and that He glorified the Father in taking on the sins of the world. He invited the people to come forth to put their hands into His side and to feel the prints of the nails in His hands and in His feet. He wanted them to know that He was the God of Israel, who was slain for the sins of the world. The people joyfully responded, going forth one by one until they had all seen and felt that it was truly He of whom it was written by the prophets that should come.7
Jesus taught the Nephites about the importance of repentance, about becoming as a little child, and about the need to be baptized by one having His authority. He then taught much of the doctrine that we are studying this year in the New Testament.
In 3 Nephi 17, we read that Jesus told the people it was time for Him to go unto the Father and also to show Himself unto the lost tribes of Israel.8 As He cast His eyes on the multitude, He noticed that they were in tears, looking steadfastly upon Him as if they would ask Him to tarry a little longer.9
The Savior’s response to the Nephites was both touching and instructive. He said, “Behold, my bowels are filled with compassion towards you.”10
I believe that His compassion was much more than a response to the people’s tears. It seems that He could see them through the eyes of His atoning sacrifice. He saw their every pain, affliction, and temptation. He saw their sicknesses. He saw their infirmities, and He knew from His agonizing suffering in Gethsemane and on Golgotha how to succor them according to their infirmities.11
Similarly, when our Savior, Jesus Christ, looks upon us, He sees and understands the pain and burden of our sins. He sees our addictions and challenges. He sees our struggles and afflictions of any kind—and He is filled with compassion toward us.
His gracious invitation to the Nephites followed: “Have ye any that are sick among you? Bring them hither. Have ye any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or leprous, or that are withered, or that are deaf, or that are afflicted in any manner? Bring them hither and I will heal them, for I have compassion upon you; my bowels are filled with mercy.”12
And the people came forth “with all them that were afflicted in any manner; and he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto him.”13

In 1990 we were living in the small town of Sale, in Victoria, Australia. We were happily busy with family, Church, and work commitments. On a beautiful summer Saturday just before Christmas, we decided to visit some parks and a favorite beach. After enjoying a wonderful day playing as a family, we packed everyone into the car and headed home. While driving, I momentarily fell asleep and caused a head-on car accident. After some moments of recovery, I looked around the vehicle. My wife, Maxine, had a badly broken leg and was struggling to breathe. She had a broken sternum. Our three daughters were in shock but thankfully appeared to be OK. I had some minor injuries. But our five-month-old son was unresponsive.
Amid the stress and confusion of that accident scene, our eldest daughter, 11-year-old Kate, said with urgency, “Dad, you need to give Jarom a blessing.” After some struggle, my daughters and I managed to get out of the car. Maxine couldn’t be moved. Carefully I picked Jarom up; then, while lying on the ground on my back, I gently placed him on my chest and gave him a priesthood blessing. By the time the ambulance arrived about 40 minutes later, Jarom was conscious.
That night I left three family members in the hospital and took a hushed taxi ride home with two of my daughters. Through the long night, I pled with Heavenly Father that my family and those injured in the other vehicle would recover. Mercifully, my prayers and fervently offered prayers by many others were answered. All were healed over time, a great blessing and tender mercy.
Yet I continued to have deep feelings of guilt and remorse for causing such a terrible accident. I would wake during the night and relive the horrific events. I struggled for years to forgive myself and to find peace. Then, as a priesthood leader, while assisting others to repent and helping them to feel the compassion, mercy, and love of the Savior, I realized that He could heal me.
The Savior’s healing and redeeming power applies to accidental mistakes, poor decisions, challenges, and trials of every kind—as well as to our sins. As I turned to Him, my feelings of guilt and remorse were gradually replaced with peace and rest.
President Russell M. Nelson taught: “When the Savior atoned for all mankind, He opened a way that those who follow Him can have access to His healing, strengthening, and redeeming power. These spiritual privileges are available to all who seek to hear Him and follow Him.”14
Brothers and sisters, whether you are carrying the burden of unresolved sin, suffering because of an offense committed against you long ago, or struggling to forgive yourself for an accidental mistake, you have access to the healing and redeeming power of the Savior Jesus Christ.
I testify that He lives. He is our Savior and Redeemer. He loves us. He has compassion for us, He is filled with mercy, and He can heal you. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Moroni 10:4.


Moroni 10:3.


See 3 Nephi 11–26.


See Doctrine and Covenants 19:16–19.


See Doctrine and Covenants 138:29–32.


See 3 Nephi 26:2.


See 3 Nephi 11:8, 10–11, 14–15.


See 3 Nephi 17:4.


See 3 Nephi 17:5.


3 Nephi 17:6.


See Alma 7:11–12.


3 Nephi 17:7.


3 Nephi 17:9.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 100.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Your Patriarchal Blessing—Inspired Direction from Heavenly Father","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Your Patriarchal Blessing—Inspired Direction from Heavenly Father

By Elder Randall K. Bennett
Of the Seventy

My patriarchal blessing helped me understand my true eternal identity—who I really was and who I could become.


I was raised by wonderful parents who loved and faithfully taught us, their children, the gospel. Sadly, my beloved parents struggled in their marriage for years. I was a Primary child when I was told that they would likely divorce someday and my siblings and I would need to choose which parent to live with. As a result, for years I experienced significant anxiety; however, a gift from my Heavenly Father ultimately helped change everything for me—my patriarchal blessing.
At age 11, increasingly worried about my parents’ relationship, I deeply desired my patriarchal blessing. I knew that my Heavenly Father knew me perfectly and knew my specific circumstances. And I also knew I would receive direction from Him. Immediately after my 12th birthday, I received my patriarchal blessing. That was more than half a century ago, but I vividly remember the details of that sacred experience.
Gratefully, we have inspired direction about patriarchal blessings in the Church’s General Handbook:
“Every worthy, baptized member is entitled to receive a patriarchal blessing, which provides inspired direction from Heavenly Father.”
A member should be “mature enough to understand the significance and sacred nature of the blessing” and “understand the basic doctrine of the gospel.”
“Ideally the member should be young enough that many important decisions in life are still ahead. … Priesthood leaders should not establish a minimum age for a member to receive a patriarchal blessing. …
“Each patriarchal blessing is sacred, confidential, and personal. …
“A person who receives a patriarchal blessing should treasure its words, ponder them, and live to be worthy to receive the promised blessings in this life and in eternity.”1
Our beloved President Russell M. Nelson has repeatedly taught about the importance of a patriarchal blessing,2 that it gives each recipient “a declaration of lineage back to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob”3 and that each blessing “is personal scripture to you.”4
My patriarchal blessing was critically important to me when I was young for numerous reasons. First, through the power of the Holy Ghost, my patriarchal blessing helped me understand my true eternal identity—who I really was and who I could become. It helped me know, as President Nelson has taught, that I was “a son of God,” “a [child] of the covenant,” and “a disciple of Jesus Christ.”5 I knew that I was known and loved by my Heavenly Father and my Savior and that They were personally involved in my life. This helped me desire to draw closer to Them and increase my faith and trust in Them.
A dear friend who joined the Church as a young adult shared: “When the patriarch placed his hands on my head and spoke my name, everything changed, … not just then but for the rest of my life. I immediately sensed that—through the power by which he spoke—I was known intimately and deeply. The words he spoke penetrated my entire being. I knew that Heavenly Father knew me, inside and out.”
Knowing who I really was helped me understand and desire to do what God expected of me.6
This led me to study the covenants I had made and the promised blessings in God’s covenant with Abraham.7 It gave me an eternal perspective that inspired me to more fully keep my covenants.
I studied my patriarchal blessing frequently and, as a youth, often daily, which helped me feel the comforting, guiding influence of the Holy Ghost, who helped reduce my anxiety as I followed His promptings. This increased my desire to actively invite light, truth, and the Holy Ghost by studying my scriptures and praying daily and trying to more diligently study and follow the teachings of God’s prophet and apostles. My patriarchal blessing also helped me desire to be more submissive to the will of my Heavenly Father, and that focus helped me experience great joy, despite my personal circumstances.8
I received spiritual strength each time I studied my patriarchal blessing. When my parents finally did divorce, my patriarchal blessing, as President Thomas S. Monson taught, had for me become “a precious and priceless personal treasure,” even “a personal Liahona.”9
Now, please don’t misunderstand. I wasn’t perfect. I made all sorts of mistakes. My eternal companion would confirm that I still do. But my patriarchal blessing helped me and continues to help me desire to do better and be better.10 Frequently studying my patriarchal blessing increased my desire to withstand temptation. It helped me have the desire and courage to repent, and repentance increasingly became a joyful process.
It was vital for me to receive my patriarchal blessing while I was young and while my testimony was still growing. And I am forever grateful that my parents and bishop understood that my desire indicated I was ready.
When I was 12, the world was far less confusing and distracting than the world today. President Nelson has described today as “a most complicated time in the history of the world,” a world that is “sin-saturated” and “self-centered.”11 Fortunately our youth today are much more mature than I was at 12, and they too have critically important decisions to make while they are young! They also need to know who they really are and that God loves them and is perfectly aware of them!
Not everyone will desire their patriarchal blessing when I did. But I pray that members who have not yet received their patriarchal blessing will prayerfully seek to know when they are ready. I promise that if you prepare spiritually, your experience, like mine, will be sacred to you. I also pray that those who have already received their patriarchal blessing will study it and treasure it. Cherishing my patriarchal blessing while I was young blessed me with courage when I was discouraged, comfort when I was fearful, peace when I felt anxious, hope when I felt hopeless, and joy when I needed it most. My patriarchal blessing helped increase my faith and trust in my Heavenly Father and my Savior. It also increased my love for Them—and it still does.12
I testify that patriarchal blessings do provide inspired direction from Heavenly Father. I bear my witness of the living reality of our Father in Heaven and His Son—our Savior, Jesus Christ—who know us, love us, and desire to bless us. I also know with certainty that President Russell M. Nelson is God’s prophet on the earth today. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 18.17, 18.17.1, ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Thanks for the Covenant” (Brigham Young University devotional, Nov. 22, 1988), speeches.byu.edu; “A More Excellent Hope” (Brigham Young University devotional, Jan. 8, 1995), speeches.byu.edu; “Identity, Priority, and Blessings” (Brigham Young University devotional, Sept. 10, 2000), speeches.byu.edu; “Roots and Branches,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2004, 27–29; “Covenants,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2011, 86–89; “Youth of the Noble Birthright: What Will You Choose?” (Brigham Young University–Hawaii devotional, Sept. 6, 2013), broadcasts.ChurchofJesusChrist.org; “The Book of Mormon, the Gathering of Israel, and the Second Coming,” Ensign, July 2014, 26–31; Liahona, July 2014, 24–29; “Let God Prevail,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 92–95; “The Everlasting Covenant,” Liahona, Oct. 2022, 1–6.


Russell M. Nelson, “Covenants,” 88.


Russell M. Nelson, “Thanks for the Covenant,” speeches.byu.edu.


Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults, May 12, 2022), ChurchofJesusChrist.org; emphasis added.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Covenants,” 86–89.


See Genesis 17:1–10; see also Russell M. Nelson, “Children of the Covenant,” Ensign, May 1995, 32–34.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 81–84.


Thomas S. Monson, “Your Patriarchal Blessing: A Liahona of Light,” Ensign, Nov. 1986, 65–66.


See Russell M. Nelson, “We Can Do Better and Be Better,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 67–69.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 95–96.


Inspired by James E. Faust, “Priesthood Blessings,” Ensign, Nov. 1995, 62–64.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"“There Can Be Nothing So Exquisite and Sweet as Was My Joy”","year":"2023","month":"04"}



“There Can Be Nothing So Exquisite and Sweet as Was My Joy”

By Elder Craig C. Christensen
Of the Seventy

Repenting daily and coming unto Jesus Christ is the way to experience joy—joy beyond our imagination.


Throughout His mortal ministry, the Savior showed great compassion for all of God’s children—especially for those who were suffering or had fallen away. When criticized by the Pharisees for associating with and eating among sinners, Jesus responded by teaching three familiar parables.1 In each of these parables, He emphasized the importance of seeking out those who had strayed and the joy that is felt when they return. For example, in the parable of the lost sheep, He said, “[Great] joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth.”2
My desire today is to strengthen the connection between joy and repentance—more specifically, the joy that comes when we repent and the feelings of joy we experience as we invite others to come unto Christ and receive His atoning sacrifice in their lives.


We Are That We Might Have Joy

In the scriptures, the word joy typically means much more than passing moments of contentment or even feelings of happiness. Joy in this context is a godly attribute, found in its fulness when we return to dwell in the presence of God.3 It is more profound, elevating, enduring, and life-changing than any pleasure or comfort this world can offer.
We were created to have joy. It is our intended destiny as children of a loving Heavenly Father. He wants to share His joy with us. The prophet Lehi taught that God’s plan for each of us is that we “might have joy.”4 Because we live in a fallen world, enduring joy or everlasting joy often seems beyond our reach. Yet in the very next verse, Lehi continues by explaining that “the Messiah [came to] … redeem [us] from the fall.”5 Redemption, by and through the Savior Jesus Christ, makes joy possible.
The gospel message is a message of hope, of “good tidings of great joy,”6 and the means whereby all can experience peace and occasions of joy in this life and receive a fulness of joy in the life to come.7
The joy we speak of is a gift for the faithful, yet it comes with a price. Joy is not cheap or casually given. Rather, it is bought “with the precious blood of [Jesus] Christ.”8 If we really understood the value of true, godly joy, we would not hesitate to sacrifice any worldly possession or make any necessary life changes to receive it.
A powerful but humble king in the Book of Mormon understood this. “What shall I do,” he asked, “that I may be born of God, having this wicked spirit rooted out of my breast, and receive his Spirit, that I may be filled with joy … ? Behold, said he, I will give up all that I possess, yea, I will forsake my kingdom, that I may receive this great joy.”9
In response to the king’s question, the missionary Aaron said, “If thou desirest this thing, … bow down before God … [and] repent of all thy sins.”10 Repentance is the pathway to joy11 because it is the pathway that leads to the Savior Jesus Christ.12



Joy Comes through Sincere Repentance

For some, to think of repentance as the pathway to joy might seem contradictory. Repentance, at times, can be painful and difficult. It requires admitting that some of our thoughts and actions—even some of our beliefs—have been wrong. Repentance also requires change, which, at times, can be uncomfortable. But joy and comfort are not the same thing. Sin—including the sin of complacency—limits our joy.
As stated by the psalmist, “Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.”13 As we repent of our sins, we must focus on the great joy that follows. The nights may seem long, but the morning does come, and oh, how exquisite is the peace and resplendent joy we feel as the Savior’s Atonement frees us from sin and suffering.



There Can Be Nothing So Exquisite and Sweet

Consider the experience of Alma in the Book of Mormon. He was “racked with eternal torment,” and his soul was “harrowed up” because of his sins. But once he turned to the Savior for mercy, he “could remember [his] pains no more.”14
“And oh, what joy,” he declared, “and what marvelous light I did behold; yea, … there can be nothing so exquisite and sweet as was my joy.”15
This is the kind of joy available to those who come unto Jesus Christ through repentance.16 As President Russell M. Nelson has taught:
“Repentance opens our access to the power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ. …
“When we choose to repent, we choose to change! We allow the Savior to transform us into the best version of ourselves. We choose to grow spiritually and receive joy—the joy of redemption in Him. When we choose to repent, we choose to become more like Jesus Christ!”17
Repentance brings joy because it prepares our hearts to receive the influence of the Holy Ghost. To be filled with the Holy Ghost means to be filled with joy. And to be filled with joy means to be filled with the Holy Ghost.18 Our joy increases as we work daily to bring the Spirit into our lives. As taught by the prophet Mormon, “Nevertheless they did fast and pray oft, and did wax stronger and stronger in their humility, and firmer and firmer in [their] faith [in] Christ, unto the filling their souls with joy and consolation.”19 The Lord promises all who work to follow Him, “I will impart unto you … my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy.”20




The Joy of Helping Others Repent

After we have felt the joy that comes from sincere repentance, we quite naturally want to share that joy with others. As we do, our joy multiplies. That’s exactly what happened to Alma.
“This is my glory,” he said, “that perhaps I may be an instrument in the hands of God to bring some soul to repentance; and this is my joy.
“And behold, when I see many of my brethren truly penitent, and coming to the Lord their God, then is my soul filled with joy; then do I remember what the Lord has done for me, … yea, then do I remember his merciful arm which he extended [to] me.”21
Helping others repent is a natural expression of our gratitude toward the Savior, and it is a source of great joy. The Lord has promised:
“If it so be that you should … bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father!
“And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me … , how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!”22



How Great Is His Joy in the Soul That Repenteth

I find it helpful to try to imagine the joy the Savior must feel each time we receive the blessings of His atoning sacrifice in our lives.23 As cited by President Nelson,24 the Apostle Paul in his Epistle to the Hebrews shared this tender insight: “Lay aside every … sin which doth so easily beset us, … looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross … and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.”25 We speak often of the pain and suffering of Gethsemane and Calvary, but seldom do we speak of the great joy the Savior must have anticipated as He offered His life for us. Clearly, His pain and His suffering were for us, that we might experience the joy of returning with Him to the presence of God.
After teaching the people in ancient America, the Savior expressed His great love for them by saying:
“Now, behold, my joy is great, even unto fulness, because of you … ; yea, and even the Father rejoiceth, and also all the holy angels. …
“… In [you] I have [a] fulness of joy.”26



Come unto Christ and Receive His Joy

Brothers and sisters, I conclude by sharing my personal witness, which I consider a sacred gift. I testify that Jesus Christ is the Savior and Redeemer of the world. I know that He loves each of us. His singular focus, His “work and [His] glory,”27 is to help us receive a fulness of joy in Him. I am a personal witness that repenting daily and coming unto Jesus Christ is the way to experience joy—joy beyond our imagination.28 That is why we are here on earth. That is why God prepared His great plan of happiness for us. Jesus Christ truly is “the way, the truth, and the life”29 and the only “name given under heaven whereby man can be saved in the kingdom of God.”30 I so testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Luke 15.


Luke 15:7.


See Psalm 16:11.


2 Nephi 2:25.


2 Nephi 2:26.


Luke 2:10.


See Mosiah 3:13–19.


1 Peter 1:19.


Alma 22:15.


Alma 22:16.


In recent years, several prophets and apostles have emphasized the joy of repentance. See, for example, Russell M. Nelson, “We Can Do Better and Be Better,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 67–69; Dallin H. Oaks, “Cleansed by Repentance,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 91–94; Dale G. Renlund, “Repentance: A Joyful Choice,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 121–24; D. Todd Christofferson, “The Divine Gift of Repentance,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2011, 38–41.


President Nelson taught: “Joy comes from and because of [Jesus Christ]. He is the source of all joy. … For Latter-day Saints, Jesus Christ is joy!” (“Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 82).


Psalm 30:5.


Alma 36:12, 19.


Alma 36:20–21; see also verses 12–19.


See Alma 27:18.


Russell M. Nelson, “We Can Do Better and Be Better,” 67.


See Acts 13:52; Mosiah 4:3.


Helaman 3:35.


Doctrine and Covenants 11:13.


Alma 29:9–10.


Doctrine and Covenants 18:15–16.


See Doctrine and Covenants 18:13.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” 83.


Hebrews 12:1–2; emphasis added.


3 Nephi 27:30–31. Three of the Savior’s Nephite disciples desired to remain in mortality with the sole purpose of bringing souls to Him. To these loyal disciples, Jesus said, “For this cause ye shall have fulness of joy; and ye shall sit down in the kingdom of my Father; yea, your joy shall be full, even as the Father hath given me fulness of joy; and ye shall be even as I am” (3 Nephi 28:10).


Moses 1:39.


“Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him” (1 Corinthians 2:9).


John 14:6.


2 Nephi 31:21.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Trusting the Doctrine of Christ","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Trusting the Doctrine of Christ

By Elder Evan A. Schmutz
Of the Seventy

When we have built our houses on the foundation of a covenantal relationship with Christ, we are trusting the doctrine of Christ.


In my mind’s eye, I see the aging prophet Nephi at his desk, the plates of gold spread before him, his stylus in hand.
Nephi was in the process of finishing his last engraving on the record. He wrote, “And now, my beloved brethren, I make an end of my sayings.”1 But soon after, the Spirit urged Nephi to return to his record and write a concluding message. Under the powerful influence of the Holy Ghost, that great prophet took his stylus again in hand and wrote, “Wherefore, the things … I have written sufficeth me, save it be a few words … I must speak concerning the doctrine of Christ.”2
How eternally grateful we are for those “few words”3 and for the Spirit compelling Nephi to write them. Nephi’s treatise on the doctrine of Christ is a treasure to those who feast upon it. It contains a vision of the Savior’s baptism4 and the voice of the Son inviting all to follow Him5 and “do the things which [we] have seen [Him] do.”6 It contains Nephi’s witness that those who, with faith in Christ, sincerely repent of their sins and follow the Savior into the waters of baptism will “receive the Holy Ghost; yea, then cometh the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost.”7 We also hear the voice of the Father bearing record: “Yea, the words of my Beloved are true and faithful. He that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved.”8
President Russell M. Nelson emphasized the singular importance of the doctrine of Christ during remarks to newly called mission leaders: “More than anything else, we want our missionaries … to have the doctrine of Christ engraved in their hearts—rooted … in the marrow of their bones.”9
Preach My Gospel summarizes five important elements of the doctrine of Christ. It says, “[We] invite others to come unto Christ by helping them receive the restored gospel through faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, repentance, baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.”10
But the importance of the doctrine of Christ is not just for missionaries! And it is much more profound than a mere summary repetition of its five key elements. It encompasses the law of the gospel. It is the great plan for eternal life.
Brothers and sisters, if we are to accept President Nelson’s invitation to have the doctrine of Christ rooted in the marrow of our bones, we must deepen our conversion to the Lord by study, prayer, faithful living, and continual repentance. We must invite the Holy Ghost to engrave the doctrine of Christ in the “fleshy tables of [our] heart[s]”11 as deeply and as permanently as it was engraved by Nephi upon the plates of gold.
Last October, President Nelson asked, “What does it mean to overcome the world?” Among other things, he said, “It means trusting the doctrine of Christ more than the philosophies of men.”12
The word trust is defined as an “assured reliance on the character, ability, strength, or truth of someone or something.”13 That someone is Jesus Christ, and that something is His doctrine.
So how would intentionally trusting the doctrine of Christ change the way we live our lives?
If we trust the doctrine of Christ, we will trust Christ enough to live by His every word.14 We will make a lifelong study of Jesus Christ,15 His ministry, His teachings, and His infinite Atonement, including His glorious Resurrection. We will study His promises and the conditions upon which those promises are given.16 As we study, we will be filled with greater love for the Lord.
If we trust the doctrine of Christ, we will approach our Heavenly Father every day in humble, secret prayer, where we can express gratitude for the gift of His Son and for all of our blessings.17 We can pray for the revelatory companionship of the Holy Ghost,18 pray to align our will with His,19 pray to reflect upon our covenants and renew our commitment to keep them.20 We can pray to sustain and express love for our prophets, seers, and revelators;21 pray for the cleansing power of forgiveness;22 and pray for the strength to resist temptation.23 I invite you to make prayer a priority in your life, seeking each day to improve your communication with God.
If we trust the doctrine of Christ, we will set aside the shiny things of the world so that we can focus on the Redeemer of the world.24 We will limit or eliminate time spent on social media; digital games; wasteful, excessive, or inappropriate entertainment; the allure of this world’s treasures and vanities; and any other activities that give place to the false traditions and misguided philosophies of men. It is only in Christ we find truth and lasting fulfillment.
Sincere repentance25 will become a joyful26 part of our lives—both to be forgiven for sin and to be changed in the image of Christ.27 Repentance with faith in Christ gives us access to the Atonement of Christ. President Dallin H. Oaks has taught that when the Savior forgives, He “does more than cleanse [us] from sin. He also gives [us] new strength.”28 Each one of us needs this strength to keep the commandments of God and to fulfill the eternal purpose of our lives.

In Jesus and in His doctrine, we find strength. He said, “Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and whoso buildeth upon this buildeth upon my rock, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against them.”29
We see this promise fulfilled in the lives of faithful people. It was a little over a year ago that I was privileged to meet Travis and Kacie. They were married civilly in 2007. At the time, Travis was not a member of the Church. Kacie, though raised in an active Latter-day Saint home, had drifted from her faith in her teens and had strayed from her foundation.
In 2018, Travis met the missionaries, and he was baptized in 2019. Travis became a missionary to Kacie, who also experienced a life-changing conversion. They were sealed in the temple in September 2020. About two years after his baptism, Travis was called to serve in the bishopric.
Travis has a rare disease that continuously forms clusters of tumors in his internal organs. He has undergone many surgeries to remove the recurring tumors, but the disease is incurable. Several years ago, Travis was given fewer than 10 years to live.
Kacie has retinitis pigmentosa, a rare genetic disease that causes irreversible narrowing of the field of vision until complete blindness sets in.
Kacie spoke to me of her future. She anticipated the time, not far distant, when she would be widowed, blind, without financial support, and left alone to raise four growing children. I asked Kacie how she could handle such a bleak future. She smiled peacefully and said, “I have never been happier or more hopeful in my life. We hold to the promises we received in the temple.”
Travis is now the bishop. Two months ago he had another major surgery. But he is optimistic and peaceful. Kacie’s vision has worsened. She now has a guide dog and is unable to drive. But she is content, raising her children and serving as a counselor in the Young Women presidency.
Travis and Kacie are building their house on the rock. Travis and Kacie trust the doctrine of Christ and the promise that God “shall consecrate [their] afflictions for [their] gain.”30 In God’s perfect plan, suffering with faith in Christ is linked to our becoming perfected in Christ.31 Like the wise man in the parable who built his house upon a rock,32 when the rain descends and the floods come and the winds blow and beat upon the house Travis and Kacie are building, it will fall not, for it will be founded upon a rock.33
Jesus did not speak of the possibility of rain and flood and wind in our lives; He spoke of the certainty that storms will arise. The variable in this parable is not whether storms will come but how we have responded to His loving invitation to both hear and do what He has taught.34 There is no other way to survive.
When we have built our houses on the foundation of a covenantal relationship with Christ, we are trusting the doctrine of Christ, and as we come unto Him, we have His promise of eternal life. People who trust the doctrine of Christ press forward with steadfastness in Christ and endure to the end. There is no other way to be saved in the kingdom of heaven.35
I bear my personal witness of the living, resurrected reality of Jesus Christ. I testify that God our Father so loved the world He sent His Son to redeem us from sin36 and heal us from sorrow.37 I testify that He has called a prophet of God in our time, even President Russell M. Nelson, through whom He speaks and guides us.
With all my heart, I invite you to trust the doctrine of Christ and build your lives upon the rock of the Redeemer. He will never fail you. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


2 Nephi 30:18.


2 Nephi 31:2; emphasis added.


See 2 Nephi 31–32.


See 2 Nephi 31:7–8.


See 2 Nephi 31:10.


2 Nephi 31:12.


2 Nephi 31:13.


2 Nephi 31:15.


In Marianne Holman Prescott, “Elder Russell M. Nelson: ‘Epistles of the Lord,’” Church News, July 1, 2015, thechurchnews.com.


Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Missionary Service (2018), 1. The “missionary purpose” reflects the five elements of the doctrine of Christ. The teaching of 2 Nephi 31–32 includes several other important elements that are part of the doctrine of Christ, such as holding fast to the word of Christ (see 2 Nephi 31:19–20; 32:3); keeping commandments (see 2 Nephi 31:7, 10, 18); prayer (see 2 Nephi 32:8–9); and at its very core, the doctrine that Christ’s atoning sacrifice is the only way whereby we can be saved (see 2 Nephi 31:21). Elements of the doctrine of Christ are found throughout the scriptures, although the most thorough discussions of the doctrine are found in 2 Nephi 31:5–21; 3 Nephi 11:31–39; 3 Nephi 27:13–21; and Moses 6:59–62.


2 Corinthians 3:3.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 96; emphasis added.


Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, “trust.”


See Doctrine and Covenants 84:44.


See Matthew 11:29.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Drawing the Power of Jesus Christ into Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2017, 39: “We begin by learning about Him. … The more we know about the Savior’s ministry and mission—the more we understand His doctrine and what He did for us. … I [invite you] to let the scriptural citations about Jesus Christ in the Topical Guide become [your] personal core curriculum.”


See Matthew 6:6–13.


See 3 Nephi 19:9.


See 2 Nephi 4:35; 3 Nephi 19:24; Doctrine and Covenants 46:30.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 95: “I invite you to set a regular time to rehearse in your mind the covenants you have made.”


See Doctrine and Covenants 107:22.


See Mosiah 4:10.


See Matthew 6:13.


See Matthew 6:19–21, 33.


King Benjamin described sincere repentance: “And again, believe that ye must repent of your sins and forsake them, and humble yourselves before God; and ask in sincerity of heart that he would forgive you; and now, if you believe all these things see that ye do them” (Mosiah 4:10).


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 98–99: “Start today to experience the joy of putting off the natural man. The Savior loves us always but especially when we repent. … Experience the joy and relief of repenting.”


See Alma 5:14–15.


Dallin H. Oaks, “Our Message for Missionaries” (worldwide missionary broadcast, Jan. 20, 2016); see also Dallin H. Oaks, “Sin and Suffering,” Ensign, July 1992, 73.


3 Nephi 11:39; emphasis added.


2 Nephi 2:2.


See Hebrews 5:8–9.


See 3 Nephi 14:24–27.


See 3 Nephi 14:24–25.


See 3 Nephi 14:24.


See 2 Nephi 31:20–21.


See John 3:16–17.


See John 16:20.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Work of the Temple and Family History—One and the Same Work","year":"2023","month":"04"}



The Work of the Temple and Family History—One and the Same Work

By Elder Benjamín De Hoyos
Of the Seventy

A central focus of the plan of our Heavenly Father is uniting family for this life and for eternity.


I am so grateful for the ongoing building of temples in this “dispensation of the fulness of times” (Doctrine and Covenants 128:18). Since the early days of the Restoration, faithful Saints have made many sacrifices to receive temple ordinances and covenants. Following their great example, in 1975, after many economic sacrifices to travel from Mexico City, my dear wife, Evelia, and I, being accompanied by our dear parents, were sealed as an eternal husband and wife in the Mesa Arizona Temple. That day, as we were united by the authority of the priesthood in the house of the Lord, we truly experienced a glimpse of heaven.


The Work and Purpose of Temples

That experience has permitted me to appreciate much better how, after three years of hard work and great sacrifice, the Saints in Kirtland, Ohio, finally completed their beautiful temple in the spring of 1836—the first in this dispensation. In March of that same year, over a thousand people gathered in the temple and at its entrances for the dedicatory service. The Prophet Joseph Smith arose to offer the dedicatory prayer, which he had received by revelation (see Doctrine and Covenants 109). In it he described many of the extraordinary blessings that are bestowed upon those who worthily enter the temples of the Lord. Then the choir sang the hymn “The Spirit of God,” and the congregation stood and gave the Hosanna Shout “with such [force that it] seemed … to raise the roof from the building” (Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith [2007], 307).
One week later the Prophet described the appearance of the Lord in the temple, who said:
“For behold, I have accepted this house, and my name shall be here; and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house. …
“And the fame of this house shall spread to foreign lands; and this is the beginning of the blessing which shall be poured out upon the heads of my people” (Doctrine and Covenants 110:7, 10).
After this and other visions, Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, appeared before the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and said:
“Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi—testifying that he [Elijah] [the prophet] should be sent, before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come—
“To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten with a curse—

“Therefore, the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands; and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors” (Doctrine and Covenants 110:14–16).



The Temple and Family History

After the Lord restored the sealing keys to Joseph Smith, the work of salvation on both sides of the veil began in our dispensation (see 1 Corinthians 15:22, 29; Doctrine and Covenants 128:8–18).
President Boyd K. Packer taught that “this signal event went unheeded by the world, but it would influence the destiny of every soul who has ever lived or will live. Things began quietly to happen. The Church became a temple-building church.
“In the world there emerged here and there, in a way thought to be spontaneous, people and organizations and societies interested in tracing genealogies. This has all taken place since the appearance of Elijah in the Kirtland Temple” (The Holy Temple [1980], 141).
“From that very day, April 3, 1836, the hearts of the children began to turn to their fathers. Thereafter ordinances were not tentative, but permanent. The sealing power was with us. No authorization transcends it in value. That power gives substance and eternal permanence to all ordinances performed with proper authority for both the living and the dead” (Preparing to Enter the Holy Temple [2002], 28).
Dear brothers and sisters, the construction and proper use of temples has been in any dispensation a sign of the true Church of Jesus Christ. After the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple in 1893, President Wilford Woodruff encouraged the members of the Church to find the records of their ancestors and to record their genealogy by going as far back as possible in order to bring the names into the temple and perform the ordinances of salvation and exaltation (see Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Wilford Woodruff [2004], 174).



Family History and Temple Work—One Work

One year later (1894), the same President Woodruff oversaw the creation of the Genealogical Society of Utah. One hundred years later, in 1994, Elder Russell M. Nelson, then a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, said, “Events of that historic year established family history research and temple service as one work in the Church” (“The Spirit of Elijah,” Ensign, Nov. 1994, 85).



Family History Work

Dear brothers and sisters, the Lord encourages us as members of His Church to preserve our own family history, to learn from our ancestors, and to make the necessary arrangements for them to receive the ordinances of the gospel in the temples to help them to progress along the covenant path, which will bless them with an eternal family. That is a central focus of the plan of our Heavenly Father: uniting family for this life and for eternity.
To those of you who do not feel capable of doing this work, you should know that you are not alone. We can all turn to the tools that the Church has prepared and that are found in the FamilySearch centers, which we used to know as family history centers. These FamilySearch centers have been designed so that almost everyone, with little help, can find their ancestors’ information and organize it properly so that they can take it to the house of the Lord. Please contact the family history consultants in your ward or branch, who will guide you every step of the way.
As we follow the guidance of the prophets and learn how to do our family history and perform the temple ordinances for our ancestors, we will experience great joy to the point that we will not want to stop doing it. The Spirit will flood our hearts, awaken our faculties to do it, and guide us as we search for the names of our ancestors. But let us remember that family history is more than just looking for names, dates, and places. It is uniting families and feeling the joy that comes from extending to them the ordinances of the gospel.
I love the inspired teaching of our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, who has said: “The temple lies at the center of strengthening our faith and spiritual fortitude because the Savior and His doctrine are the very heart of the temple. Everything taught in the temple, through instruction and through the Spirit, increases our understanding of Jesus Christ. His essential ordinances bind us to Him through sacred priesthood covenants. Then, as we keep our covenants, He endows us with His healing, strengthening power” (“The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 93–94).
Certainly, the work of the temple and family history are one and the same work in the Church.
I testify to these truths. I know this is the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer, whom we remember and venerate at this Easter time. I know He loves us, and when we keep our covenants and put our confidence in Him, He endows us with His healing and strengthening power. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Jesus Christ Is the Strength of Parents","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Jesus Christ Is the Strength of Parents

By Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Help your children build faith in Jesus Christ, love His gospel and His Church, and prepare for a lifetime of righteous choices.


Once upon a time, a father was about to leave for an evening bishopric meeting. His four-year-old daughter stepped in front of him, wearing pajamas and holding a copy of Book of Mormon Stories.
“Why do you have to go to a meeting?” she asked.
“Because I am a counselor in the bishopric,” he answered.
“But you are my dad!” his daughter protested.
He knelt in front of her. “Sweetheart,” he said, “I know you want me to read to you and help you go to sleep, but tonight I need to help the bishop.”
His daughter replied, “Doesn’t the bishop have a dad to help him go to sleep?”
We are eternally grateful for the countless members who serve diligently in the Church of Jesus Christ every day. Your sacrifice is truly sacred.
But as this girl seemed to understand, there’s something equally sacred—something irreplaceable—about a parent nurturing a child. It reflects the pattern of heaven.1 Our Father in Heaven, our Divine Parent, surely rejoices when His children are taught and nurtured by their parents on earth.2
Parents, thank you for everything you’re doing to raise your children. And children, thank you for everything you’re doing to raise your parents, because as every parent knows, we often learn as much from our children about faith, hope, and charity as they learn from us!3


Parents Have a Sacred Duty

Have you ever thought about the tremendous risk our Father in Heaven takes each time He sends a child to earth? These are His spirit sons and daughters. They have limitless potential. They are destined to become glorious beings of goodness, grace, and truth. And yet they come to earth completely helpless, barely able to do anything besides cry for help. The memory of their time in God’s presence is veiled over, along with the knowledge of who they really are and who they can become. They form their understanding of life, love, God, and His plan based on what they observe from the people around them—especially their parents, who, honestly, are still trying to figure things out for themselves.

God has given parents the “sacred duty to rear their children in love and righteousness, to provide for their physical and spiritual needs, and to teach them to … observe the commandments of God.”4
That’s enough to keep even the best parents awake at night.
My message to all parents is this:
The Lord loves you.
He is with you.
He stands beside you.
He is your strength in guiding your children to make righteous choices.
Accept this privilege and responsibility courageously and joyfully. Don’t delegate this source of heavenly blessings to anyone else. Within the framework of gospel values and principles, you are the ones to guide your child in the details of daily decisions. Help your children build faith in Jesus Christ, love His gospel and His Church, and prepare for a lifetime of righteous choices. In fact, that is God’s plan for parents.
Satan will oppose you, distract you, try to discourage you.
But every child has received the Light of Christ as a direct line to heaven. And the Savior will help you, guide you, and encourage you. Seek His help. Inquire of the Lord!

Just as Jesus Christ is the strength of youth, Jesus Christ is also the strength of parents.



He Magnifies Love

Sometimes we might wonder if someone else might be better qualified to guide and teach our children. But no matter how inadequate you may feel, you have something that uniquely qualifies you: your love for your child.
A parent’s love for a child is one of the strongest forces in the universe. It’s one of the few things on this earth that can truly be eternal.
Now, perhaps you feel that your relationship with your child is less than ideal. That’s where the Savior’s power comes in. He heals the sick, and He can heal relationships. He multiplies bread and fish, and He can multiply the love and the joy in your home.
Your love for your children creates a rich environment for teaching truth and building faith. Make your home a house of prayer, learning, and faith; a house of joyful experiences; a place of belonging; a house of God.5 And “pray unto the Father with all the energy of heart, that [you] may be filled with [His] love, which he [bestows] upon … followers of his Son, Jesus Christ.”6



He Magnifies Small and Simple Efforts

Another strength you have, as a parent, is the opportunity for daily, ongoing influence. Peers, teachers, and media influencers come and go. But you can be the most constant, steady influence in your child’s life.
Your efforts may seem small compared to the loud voices your children hear in the world. At times it may feel that you’re not accomplishing much. But remember that “by small means the Lord can bring about great things.”7 One home evening, one gospel conversation, or one good example may not change your child’s life in a moment, any more than one drop of rain causes a plant immediately to grow. But the consistency of small and simple things, day after day, nourishes your children much better than an occasional flood.8
That is the Lord’s way. He speaks to you and your child with a still, small voice, not a voice of thunder.9 He healed Naaman not through “some great thing” but through the simple, repeated act of washing.10 The children of Israel enjoyed the feast of quail in the wilderness, but what kept them alive was the small and simple miracle of manna—their daily bread.11
Brothers and sisters, daily bread is best prepared and served at home. Faith and testimony are best fostered in normal and natural ways, one bite at a time, in small and simple moments, in the constant flow of daily living.12
Every moment is a teaching moment. Every word and action can be a guide for making choices.13
You may not see the immediate effects of your efforts. But don’t give up. “All things must come to pass in their time,” the Lord said. “Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing, for [you] are laying the foundation of a great work.”14 What work could be greater than helping God’s precious children learn who they really are and build their faith in Jesus Christ, His gospel, and His Church? Jesus Christ will bless and magnify your consistent efforts.



He Gives Revelation

Another powerful way the Lord supports parents is through the gift of personal revelation. God is eager to pour out His Spirit to guide parents.
As you are prayerful and sensitive to the Spirit, He will warn you of hidden dangers.15 He will reveal your children’s gifts, their strengths, and their unspoken concerns.16 God will help you see your children as He sees them—beyond their outward appearance and into their hearts.17
With God’s help, you can learn to know your children in a pure and heavenly way. I invite you to accept God’s offer to guide your family by personal revelation. Seek His guidance in your prayers.18



A Mighty Change

Perhaps the most important help Jesus Christ offers to parents is the “mighty change” of heart.19 It’s a miracle every one of us needs.

For a moment, imagine this situation: You’re at church, listening to a talk about families. The speaker describes a perfect home and an even more perfect family. Husband and wife never quarrel. Children stop reading their scriptures only when it’s time to do homework. And the music of “Love One Another”20 is playing in the background. Before the speaker gets to the part about everyone cheerfully joining to clean the bathroom, you’re already thinking, “My family is hopeless.”
Dear brothers and sisters, relax! Everyone in the congregation is thinking the same thing! The fact is, all parents worry about not being good enough.
Fortunately, there is a divine source of help for parents: It is Jesus Christ. He is the source of our mighty change of heart.
As you open your heart to the Savior and His teachings, He will show you your weakness. If you trust Jesus Christ with a humble heart, He will make weak things become strong.21 He is the God of miracles.
Does that mean you and your family will be picture-perfect? No. But you will get better. Through the Savior’s grace, little by little, you’ll develop more of the attributes parents need: love for God and His children, patience, selflessness, faith in Christ, and courage to make righteous choices.



Jesus Christ Offers Support through His Church

Our effort to build faith in Jesus Christ is home centered, focused on the individual. And it is Church supported. Besides providing the sacred scriptures and the words of prophets, the Savior’s Church offers many resources to help parents and children make righteous choices:



For the Strength of Youth: A Guide for Making Choices does not give you a list of dos or don’ts. It teaches eternal truths to help make choices centered on the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. Read it with your children. Let them talk about it. Help them to have these eternal and divine truths guide their choices.22


FSY conferences are another wonderful resource. I hope every youth will attend. I invite young single adults to join these conferences as mentors and counselors. I invite parents to build on the spiritual momentum their youth bring home from FSY conferences.


Children and youth in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have teachers, advisers, and mentors. Often you enter a young person’s life at a crucial moment to build and support faith and testimony. Some of you are single adults. Some never had children of your own. Your joyful service to God’s children is sacred in God’s eyes.23





Never Give Up on the Miracle

My dear friends, my dear brothers and sisters, building faith in a child is somewhat like helping a flower grow. You cannot tug on the stem to make it taller. You cannot pry open the bud to get it to blossom sooner. And you cannot neglect the flower and expect it to grow or flourish spontaneously.
What you can and must do for the rising generation is provide rich, nourishing soil with access to flowing heavenly water. Remove weeds and anything that would block heavenly sunlight. Create the best possible conditions for growth. Patiently allow the rising generation to make inspired choices, and let God work His miracle. The result will be more beautiful and more stunning and more joyful than anything you could accomplish just by yourself.

In Heavenly Father’s plan, families’ relationships are meant to be eternal. This is why, as a parent, you never give up, even if you are not proud of how things went in the past.
With Jesus Christ, the Master Healer and Savior, there can always be a new beginning; He always gives hope.
Jesus Christ is the strength of families.
Jesus Christ is the strength of youth.
Jesus Christ is the strength of parents.
Of this I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


“Innate in almost every parent is the desire to teach his or her children moral virtues. This is part of the miracle of Heavenly Father’s plan. He wants His children to come to earth, following the eternal pattern of families that exists in heaven. Families are the basic organizational unit of the eternal realms, and so He intends for them also to be the basic unit on earth. Though earthly families are far from perfect, they give God’s children the best chance to be welcomed to the world with the only love on earth that comes close to what we felt in heaven—parental love. Families are also the best way to preserve and pass on moral virtues and true principles that are most likely to lead us back to God’s presence” (Henry B. Eyring, “Gathering the Family of God,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2017, 20).


Of course, we know that God’s will is not always accomplished “in earth, as it is in heaven” (Matthew 6:10). Mortal parenthood certainly pales in comparison to God’s ideal. He surely sees that. He must weep over all the sorrows and heartache in family relationships. And yet He has not given up on the family. And He will not, because God has a glorious plan for the eternal destiny of His children. And at the center of that plan is the family.


See Matthew 18:1–5; Mosiah 3:19.


“The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” ChurchofJesusChrist.org; see also Doctrine and Covenants 68:25–28.


See “Learning at Home Is Founded on Relationships,” Teaching in the Savior’s Way: For All Who Teach in the Home and in the Church (2022), 30–31; see also Doctrine and Covenants 109:8.


Moroni 7:48.


1 Nephi 16:29; see also Alma 37:6–7.


See “Learning at Home Consists of Small, Simple, Consistent Efforts,” Teaching in the Savior’s Way, 31. President David O. McKay taught: “Let us not think that, because some [things] … seem small and trivial, [that] they are unimportant. Life, after all, is made up of little things. Our life, our being, physically, is made up of little heart beats. Let that little heart stop beating, and life in this world ceases. The great sun is a mighty force in the universe, but we receive the blessings of [its] rays because they come to us as little beams, which, taken in the aggregate, fill the whole world with sunlight. The dark night is made pleasant by the glimmer of what seem to be little stars; and so the true Christian life is made up of little Christ-like acts performed this hour, this minute—in the home” (Teachings of Presidents of the Church: David O. McKay [2003], 219).


See Helaman 5:30.


See 2 Kings 5:9–14.


See Exodus 16.


See “Preparing Your Children for a Lifetime on God’s Covenant Path,” Come, Follow Me—For Individuals and Families: New Testament 2023, appendix (digital only).


See “Learning at Home Can Be Planned but Also Spontaneous,” Teaching in the Savior’s Way, 31; 1 Peter 3:15.


Doctrine and Covenants 64:32–33.


See Matthew 2:13.


See Alma 40:1; 41:1; 42:1.


See 1 Samuel 16:7.


See 1 Nephi 15:8.


Alma 5:13.


See “Love One Another,” Hymns, no. 308.


See Ether 12:27.


“In the case of children, the responsibility of giving moral guidance rests with the parents. They know the disposition, understanding, and intelligence of each child. Parents spend a lifetime seeking to establish and maintain good communications with each of their children. They are in the best position to make the ultimate moral decisions as to the welfare and well-being of their offspring” (James E. Faust, “The Weightier Matters of the Law: Judgment, Mercy, and Faith,” Ensign, Nov. 1997, 54).


Two other resources worth mentioning: The digital version of this year’s Come, Follow Me resource includes a new section titled “Preparing Your Children for a Lifetime on God’s Covenant Path.” It suggests simple, home-centered ideas for helping children prepare for baptism and other covenants and ordinances. And the newly revised Teaching in the Savior’s Way has a section titled “Home and Family” that describes how the principles of Christlike teaching apply to the home (see pages 30–31).



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Christlike Poise","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Christlike Poise

By Elder Mark A. Bragg
Of the Seventy

“And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm” (Mark 4:39).


The last time that I spoke in general conference, my son-in-law Ryan showed me a tweet that said, “Really? The guy’s name is Bragg”—meaning “to boast”—“and he doesn’t talk about humility? What a waste!” Sadly, the disappointment continues.

My wonderful father was an All-America basketball player for UCLA under legendary Coach John Wooden. They remained close throughout my father’s life, and occasionally Coach and Mrs. Wooden would come to our home for dinner. He was always happy to talk to me about basketball or anything else on my mind. Once I asked him what advice he had for me as I entered my senior year of high school. Always the teacher, he said, “Your father told me that you have joined the Church of Jesus Christ, so I know that you have faith in the Lord. With that faith be sure to have poise in every situation. Be a good man in a storm.”
Over the years, that conversation stuck with me. That counsel to be calm, cool, and collected in all situations, particularly in times of adversity and pressure, resonated with me. I could see how Coach Wooden’s teams played with poise and the great success that they experienced winning 10 national championships.
But poise is not spoken about much these days and practiced even less in turbulent and divisive times. It is often referenced in sports—a player with poise is unflappable in a close game, or a team unravels due to a lack of poise. But this wonderful quality goes way beyond sports. Poise has a much broader application to life and can bless parents, leaders, missionaries, teachers, students, and everyone else facing the storms of life.
Spiritual poise blesses us to stay calm and focused on what matters most, especially when we are under pressure. President Hugh B. Brown taught, “Faith in God and in the ultimate triumph of right contributes to mental and spiritual poise in the face of difficulties.”1
President Russell M. Nelson is a wonderful example of spiritual poise. One time, while then-Dr. Nelson was performing a quadruple coronary artery bypass, the patient’s blood pressure dropped suddenly. Dr. Nelson calmly assessed the situation and identified that a clamp was accidentally removed by one of the team members. It was replaced immediately, and Dr. Nelson comforted the team member, saying, “I still love you,” and then added jokingly, “Sometimes I love you more than other times!” He showed how an emergency should be handled—with poise, focused only on what matters most—addressing the emergency. President Nelson said: “It’s a matter of extreme self-discipline. Your natural reaction is, ‘Take me out, coach! I want to go home.’ But of course you can’t. A life is totally dependent on the whole surgical team. So you’ve got to stay just as calm and relaxed and sharp as you ever were.”2
Of course, the Savior is the ultimate example of poise.
In the Garden of Gethsemane, in unimaginable agony, as “he sweat as it were great drops of blood,”3 He exemplified divine poise with the simple yet majestic statement “Not my will, but thine, be done.”4 Under the immense pressure to enable the salvation of all humankind, Jesus demonstrated three important conditions that help us understand His great poise. First, He knew who He was and was true to His divine mission. Next, He knew that there was a great plan of happiness. And finally, He knew that through His infinite Atonement, all who faithfully yoke themselves to Him by making and keeping sacred covenants received through priesthood ordinances will be saved, as was so beautifully taught by Elder Dale G. Renlund today.
To contrast the difference between losing and maintaining poise, think about what happened as Christ and His Apostles left the Garden of Gethsemane. When confronted by soldiers seeking to arrest Jesus, Peter’s reaction was to lose his poise and lash out violently by cutting off the ear of the high priest’s servant, Malchus. Jesus Christ’s reaction, on the other hand, was to keep His poise and to bring calm to a tense situation by healing Malchus.5
And for those of us who struggle with maintaining our poise and perhaps have grown discouraged, consider the rest of Peter’s story. A short time after this incident and the heartbreak of denying his association with Christ,6 Peter stood before the very same religious leaders who condemned the Savior, and with great poise under intense questioning, he bore eloquent testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ.7


Know Who You Are and Be True to Your Divine Identity

Let’s consider elements of Christlike poise. To begin, knowing who we are and being true to our divine identity brings calm. Christlike poise requires that we avoid comparing ourselves to others or pretending to be someone we’re not.8 Joseph Smith taught, “If men do not comprehend the character of God, they do not comprehend themselves.”9 It is just not possible to have divine poise without knowing that we are divine sons and daughters of a loving Heavenly Father.
In his talk “Choices for Eternity,” President Nelson taught these eternal truths about who we are: we are children of God, we are children of the covenant, and we are disciples of Christ. He then promised, “As you embrace these truths, our Heavenly Father will help you reach your ultimate goal of living eternally in His holy presence.”10 We truly are divine spiritual beings having a mortal experience. Knowing who we are and being true to that divine identity are foundational to the development of Christlike poise.



Know That There Is a Divine Plan

Next, remembering that there is a grand plan engenders courage and poise in challenging conditions. Nephi could “go and do”11 as the Lord commanded “not knowing beforehand”12 the things that he was to do because he knew that he would be led by the Spirit, in fulfillment of the eternal plan of a loving Heavenly Father. Poise comes when we see things from an eternal perspective. The Lord has counseled His disciples to “lift up your eyes”13 and to “let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds.”14 By framing challenging times within an eternal plan, pressure becomes a privilege to love, serve, teach, and bless. An eternal view enables Christlike poise.



Know the Enabling Power of Jesus Christ and His Atonement

And finally, the enabling power of Christ, made possible by His atoning sacrifice, gives us the strength to endure and prevail. Because of Jesus Christ we can covenant with God and be strengthened in keeping that covenant. We can be bound to the Savior in joy and calm, regardless of our temporal circumstances.15 Alma chapter 7 teaches beautifully about Christ’s enabling power. In addition to redeeming us from sin, the Savior can strengthen us in our weaknesses, fears, and challenges in this life.
As we focus on Christ, we can hush our fears, as Alma’s people did in Helam.16 As a threatening army gathered, those faithful disciples of Christ demonstrated poise. Elder David A. Bednar has taught: “Alma counseled the believers to remember the Lord and the deliverance only He could bestow (see 2 Nephi 2:8). And knowledge of the Savior’s protecting watchcare enabled the people to hush their own fears.”17 This exemplifies poise.



The Great Man in a Storm

Noah taught us much about patience in a storm, but the Savior was the greatest teacher on how to survive a storm. He is the great man in a storm. After a long day of teaching with His Apostles, the Savior needed some rest and suggested that they cross by boat to the other side of the Sea of Galilee. As the Savior rested, a severe storm arose. As the wind and waves threatened to sink the boat, the Apostles began to fear for their lives. And remember, several of those Apostles were fishermen who were very well acquainted with the storms on that sea! Yet, worried,18 they woke the Lord and asked, “[Lord], carest thou not that we perish?” Then, with exemplary poise, the Savior “arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was … great calm.”19
And then a great lesson in poise for His Apostles. He asked, “Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?”20 He was reminding them that He was the Savior of the world and that He was sent by the Father to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of God’s children. Surely the Son of God would not perish on a boat. He exemplified divine poise because He knew of His divinity and He knew that there was a plan of salvation and exaltation and how essential His Atonement would be to the eternal success of that plan.
It is through Christ and His Atonement that all good things come into our lives. As we remember who we are, knowing that there is a divine plan of mercy and drawing courage in the strength of the Lord, we can do all things. We will find calm. We will be good women and men in any storm.
May we seek the blessings of Christlike poise, not only to help ourselves in challenging times but to bless others and help them through the storms in their lives. On this eve of Palm Sunday, I joyfully testify of Jesus Christ. He is risen. I testify of the peace, calm, and heavenly poise that only He brings to our lives and do so in His holy name, Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Hugh B. Brown, in Conference Report, Oct. 1969, 105.


See Sheri Dew, Insights from a Prophet’s Life: Russell M. Nelson (2019), 66–67.


Joseph Smith Translation, Luke 22:44 (in Luke 22:44, footnote b).


Luke 22:42.


See Luke 22:50–51; John 18:10–11.


See Matthew 26:34–35, 69–75.


See Acts 4:8–10; Neal A. Maxwell, “Content with the Things Allotted unto Us,” Ensign, May 2000, 74; Liahona, July 2000, 89: “When spiritually aligned, a poise can come, even when we do not know ‘the meaning of all things’ [1 Nephi 11:17].”


See John R. Wooden, Wooden on Leadership (2005), 50: “I define poise as being true to oneself, not getting rattled, thrown off, or unbalanced regardless of the circumstance or situation. This may sound easy, but Poise can be a most elusive quality in challenging times. Leaders lacking Poise panic under pressure.
“Poise means holding fast to your beliefs and acting in accordance with them, regardless of how bad or good the situation may be. Poise means avoiding pose or pretense, comparing yourself to others, and acting like someone you’re not. Poise means having a brave heart in all circumstances.”


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2007), 40.


Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022), broadcasts.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


1 Nephi 3:7.


1 Nephi 4:6.


John 4:35.


Doctrine and Covenants 43:34; see also James E. Faust, “The Dignity of Self,” Ensign, May 1981, 10: “The dignity of self is greatly enhanced by looking upward in the search for holiness. Like the giant trees, we should reach up for the light. The most important source of light we can come to know is the gift of the Holy Ghost. It is the source of inner strength and peace.”


See Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 82: “My dear brothers and sisters, the joy we feel has little to do with the circumstances of our lives and everything to do with the focus of our lives.”


See Mosiah 23:27–28.


David A. Bednar, “Therefore They Hushed Their Fears,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2015, 46–47.


See Jeffrey R. Holland, Our Day Star Rising: Exploring the New Testament with Jeffrey R. Holland (2022), 61–62: “Furthermore, these were experienced men on board with Him—eleven of the original Twelve were Galileans (only Judas Iscariot was a Judean). And six of those eleven were fishermen. They had lived on this lake. They had made their living by fishing on it. They had been there since they were children. Their fathers had them mending nets and making repairs on the boat when they were very young. They know this sea; they know the winds and the waves. They are experienced men—but they are terrified. And if they are afraid, this is a legitimate storm.”


See Mark 4:35–39.


Mark 4:40.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Focus on Jesus Christ","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Focus on Jesus Christ

By Brother Milton Camargo
First Counselor in the Sunday School General Presidency

The Lord Jesus Christ is the solution to our problems, but we must lift our eyes and raise our sights to see Him.


My father used to tell me, “Don’t focus so intensely on your problems that you can’t see the solution.”
I testify that the Lord Jesus Christ is the solution to even our most difficult problems. Specifically, He has overcome four problems that every one of us faces and that not one of us can solve on our own:


The first problem is physical death. We can try to delay it or ignore it, but we can’t overcome it on our own. Jesus Christ, however, overcame death for us, and as a consequence, we will all be resurrected one day.1


The second problem includes the tribulations, difficult experiences, sadness, pain, and unfairness of this world. Jesus Christ overcame all of this. For those who strive to follow Him, He will one day “wipe away all tears” and make things right again.2 In the meantime, He can strengthen us to pass through our trials with confidence, good cheer, and peace.3


The third problem is spiritual death arising from sin. Jesus Christ overcame this problem by taking upon Himself “the chastisement of our peace.”4 Because of His atoning sacrifice, we can be freed from the consequences of our sins if we have faith in the Savior, sincerely repent, accept the covenant the Father offers us through essential ordinances such as baptism, and endure to the end.5


The fourth problem is our limited, imperfect natures. Jesus Christ has the solution to this problem too. He doesn’t just erase our errors and make us innocent again. He can work “a mighty change in … our hearts, that we have no more disposition to do evil, but to do good continually.”6 We can be perfected by the grace of Christ and one day become like Him.7


Unfortunately, too often we concentrate so much on our own problems that we lose focus on the solution, our Savior, Jesus Christ. How do we avoid that mistake? I believe the answer lies in the covenants we are invited to make with Him and our Father in Heaven.


Focusing on Jesus Christ through Covenants

Our covenants help us focus our attention, our thoughts, and our actions on Christ. As we “cleave unto the covenants [we have] made,” we can more easily identify “the things of this world” that we should “lay aside” and “the things of a better [world]” we should diligently seek.8
That’s what the people of Ammon did in the Book of Mormon. As they learned of Jesus Christ and began to focus their lives on Him, they recognized that they should bury their weapons of war and became perfectly honest and “distinguished for their zeal towards God.”9
Covenant keeping leads us to seek after whatever invites the influence of the Spirit and reject whatever drives it away—“for we know that if we can be worthy of the presence of the Holy Ghost, we can also be worthy to live in the presence of Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ.”10 This may mean that we have to change our vocabulary, using kinder words. It could mean replacing spiritually unhealthy habits with new habits that strengthen our relationship with the Lord, such as daily prayer and scripture study, individually and with our family.
President Russell M. Nelson said that “each person who makes covenants in baptismal fonts and in temples—and keeps them—has increased access to the power of Jesus Christ. … 
“The reward for keeping covenants with God is heavenly power—power that strengthens us to withstand our trials, temptations, and heartaches better.”11
Renewing our covenants during the sacrament each Sunday is a great opportunity to examine ourselves12 and refocus our lives on Jesus Christ. By partaking of the sacrament, we declare that we do “always remember him.”13 The word always is so significant. It extends the Savior’s influence into every part of our lives. We don’t remember Him only at church or only during our morning prayers or only when we’re in trouble and we need something. 
Yes, we sometimes get distracted. We forget. We lose our focus. But renewing our covenants means that we want to always remember the Savior, that we will try to do so throughout the week, and that we will recommit and refocus on Him again at the sacrament table next week.



Focusing on Jesus Christ in Our Homes

Clearly, focusing on Jesus Christ must be more than a Sunday, at-church activity. When President Nelson introduced Come, Follow Me in 2018, he said, “It is time for a home-centered Church.”14 He said we should “transform [our] home into a sanctuary of faith” and “a center of gospel learning.” And he made four wonderful promises to us if we do.15
The first promise: “Your Sabbath days will truly be a delight.” It will become a day when we draw closer to our Savior. As a young woman from Peru said, “The Lord’s day is the day I get the most answers from the Lord.”
The second promise: “Your children will be excited to learn and to live the Savior’s teachings.” That is why “we talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, … that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.”16
We do this so that one day, when our son goes out to work or to hike in the mountains or to hunt beasts in the forests, as Enos did, he may remember what we taught him about Christ and about the joy of living the gospel. And who knows? Maybe this will be the day when he will finally feel the spiritual hunger that turns him to Jesus Christ so he can hear the voice of the Lord saying to him, “Thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed.”17
The third promise: “The influence of the adversary in your life and in your home will decrease.” Why? Because the more we focus on Jesus Christ, the more sin loses its appeal.18 As our homes are filled with the Savior’s light, there is less and less room for the darkness of the adversary.
The fourth promise: “Changes in your family will be dramatic and sustaining.” Why? Because the change that Jesus Christ brings is “a mighty change.”19 He changes our very natures; we become “new creatures.”20 We gradually become more like the Savior, filled with His pure love for all of God’s children.
Who wouldn’t want these promises fulfilled in their lives and in their families? What do we need to do to obtain them? The answer is to transform our homes into a sanctuary of faith and a center of gospel learning. And how do we do that? By focusing on Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ, making Them the center of our family life, the most important influence in our home.
Could I suggest that you begin by making the words of Christ, found in the scriptures, a daily part of your life? There is no prescribed formula for perfect scripture study. It could be 5 or 10 minutes each day—or more if you can. It could be a chapter or a few verses a day. Some families prefer to study in the morning before they leave for school or work. Others prefer to read at night before bed. Some young couples have told me that they study individually on the way to work and then share insights with each other via text so their comments and discussions are recorded.
Come, Follow Me provides many suggestions of activities and resources that can help individuals and families learn gospel principles from the scriptures. The Bible videos and the Book of Mormon videos can also be valuable tools to make the scriptures more accessible to your family. Youth and children are often inspired by the memorable stories in the scriptures. These stories and the gospel principles they teach will stay with your children, like trusted friends, when they need good examples of service, virtue, obedience, patience, perseverance, personal revelation, charity, humility, and faith in Jesus Christ. Over time, your consistency in feasting on the word of God will help your children grow closer and closer to the Savior. They will come to know Him as never before.
The Lord Jesus Christ lives today. He can be an active, daily presence in our lives. He is the solution to our problems, but we must lift our eyes and raise our sights to see Him. He has said, “Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not.”21 As we focus on Him and our Father in Heaven, make and keep covenants with Them, and make Them the most important influence in our home and family, we will become the kind of people President Nelson envisioned: “A people who are able, ready, and worthy to receive the Lord when He comes again, a people who have already chosen Jesus Christ over this fallen world, a people who rejoice in their agency to live the higher, holier laws of Jesus Christ.”22 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See 1 Corinthians 15:21–22.


Revelation 21:4.


See Matthew 11:28–30; John 16:33.


Isaiah 53:5.


See 2 Nephi 31:10–13, 15–17.


Mosiah 5:2.


See Moroni 10:32.


Doctrine and Covenants 25:10, 13.


Alma 27:27; see also Alma 24:17–18.


“Conversion Is Our Goal,” Come, Follow Me—For Individuals and Families: New Testament 2023, v.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 96.


See 1 Corinthians 11:28.


Moroni 4:3; 5:2.


Russell M. Nelson, “Opening Remarks,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 7.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Becoming Exemplary Latter-day Saints,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 113.


2 Nephi 25:26.


Enos 1:5.


See Mosiah 5:2; Alma 13:11–12.


See Alma 5:12–14.


See Mosiah 27:25–26.


Doctrine and Covenants 6:36.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” 98.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Have I Truly Been Forgiven?","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Have I Truly Been Forgiven?

By Elder K. Brett Nattress
Of the Seventy

The promise of complete and perfect forgiveness is made to everyone—in and through the infinite Atonement of Jesus Christ.


Several years ago, Sister Nattress and I moved to Idaho, where we opened a new business. There were long days and nights at the office. Thankfully, we lived just a few blocks away from work. Each week, Shawna and our three daughters—all under the age of six—would come to the office to share lunch together.
On one such day after our family lunch, I noticed that our five-year-old daughter, Michelle, had left me a personal message, written on a Post-it Note and attached to my office telephone.
It simply read, “Dad, remember to love me. Love, Michelle.” This was a powerful reminder to a young father about those things that matter most.
Brothers and sisters, I testify that our Heavenly Father always remembers us and that He loves us perfectly. My question is this: Do we remember Him? And do we love Him?
Years ago, I served as a local Church leader. One of our young men, Danny, was outstanding in every way. He was obedient, kind, good, and had a great heart. However, when he graduated from high school, he started to associate with a rough crowd. He got involved in drugs, specifically methamphetamine, and traveled down the slippery slope of addiction and destruction. Before long, his appearance completely changed. He was hardly recognizable. The most significant change was in his eyes—the light in his eyes had dimmed. Several times I reached out to him, but to no avail. He wasn’t interested.
It was difficult to see this incredible young man suffer and live a life that was not him! He was capable of so much more.
Then one day, his miracle began.
He attended a sacrament meeting where his younger brother shared his testimony prior to departing for a mission. During the meeting, Danny felt something he had not felt for a long time. He felt the love of the Lord. He finally had hope.
Although he had a desire to change, it was difficult for Danny. His addictions and the accompanying guilt were almost more than he could bear.
One particular afternoon, when I was out mowing our lawn, Danny pulled up in his car unannounced. He was struggling terribly. I turned off the mower, and we sat down together in the shade of the front porch. It was then that he shared the feelings of his heart. He truly wanted to come back. However, turning away from his addictions and lifestyle was extremely difficult. Adding to this, he felt so guilty, so ashamed for falling so far. He asked, “Can I really be forgiven? Is there really a way back?”
After he poured out his heart with these concerns, we read Alma chapter 36 together:
“Yea, I did remember all my sins and iniquities. …
“Yea, … the very thought of coming into the presence of my God did rack my soul with inexpressible horror” (verses 13–14).
After those verses, Danny said, “This is exactly how I feel!”
We continued:
“While I was harrowed up by the memory of my many sins, behold, I remembered also to have heard my father prophesy unto the people concerning the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world. …
“And oh, what joy, and what marvelous light I did behold” (verses 17, 20).
As we read these passages, tears began to flow. Alma’s joy was the joy he had been searching for!
We discussed that Alma had been exceptionally wicked. However, once he repented, he never looked back. He became a devoted disciple of Jesus Christ. He became a prophet! Danny’s eyes widened. “A prophet?” he said.
I simply responded, “Yes, a prophet. No pressure on you!”
We discussed that while his sins did not rise to the level of Alma’s, the same promise of complete and perfect forgiveness is made to everyone—in and through the infinite Atonement of Jesus Christ.
Danny now understood. He knew what he needed to do: he needed to begin his journey by trusting in the Lord and forgiving himself!
Danny’s mighty change of heart was nothing short of a miracle. Over time, his countenance changed, and the brightness in his eyes returned. He became temple worthy! He was finally back!
After several months, I asked Danny if he would like to submit an application to serve a full-time mission. His response was one of shock and awe.
He said, “I would love to serve a mission, but you know where I have been and the things I have done! I thought I was disqualified.”
I responded, “You may be right. However, there is nothing precluding us from making a request. If you are excused, at least you will know that you expressed a sincere desire to serve the Lord.” His eyes lit up. He was thrilled with this idea. To him this was a long shot, but it was a chance he was willing to take.
A few weeks later, and to his amazement, another miracle occurred. Danny received a call to serve a full-time mission.
A few months after Danny arrived in the mission field, I received a telephone call. His president simply said, “What is it with this young man? He is the most incredible missionary I have ever seen!” You see, this president had received a modern-day Alma the Younger.
Two years later, Danny returned home with honor, having served the Lord with all his heart, might, mind, and strength.
Following his missionary report in sacrament meeting, I returned home, only to hear a knock at the front door. There stood Danny with tears welling in his eyes. He said, “Can we talk for a minute?” We went outside to the same porch step.
He said, “President, do you think I have truly been forgiven?”
Now my tears accompanied his. Before me stood a devoted disciple of Jesus Christ who had given his all to teaching and testifying about the Savior. He was the embodiment of the healing and strengthening power of the Savior’s Atonement.
I said, “Danny! Have you looked in the mirror? Have you seen your eyes? They are filled with light, and you are beaming with the Spirit of the Lord. Of course you have been forgiven! You are amazing! Now what you need to do is move forward with your life. Don’t look back! Look forward with faith to the next ordinance.”
Danny’s miracle continues today. He married in the temple and returned to school, where he received a master’s degree. He continues to serve the Lord with honor and dignity in his callings. More important, he has become an incredible husband and a faithful father. He is a devoted disciple of Jesus Christ.
President Russell M. Nelson taught, “Without the [Savior’s] infinite Atonement, all mankind would be irretrievably lost.”1 Danny wasn’t lost, and neither are we to the Lord. He stands at the door to lift us, to strengthen us, and to forgive us. He always remembers to love us!
An incredible demonstration of the Savior’s love for God’s children is recorded in the Book of Mormon: “When Jesus had thus spoken, he cast his eyes round about again on the multitude, and beheld they were in tears, and did look steadfastly upon him as if they would ask him to tarry a little longer with them” (3 Nephi 17:5).
The Savior had already spent a full day ministering to the people. Yet He had more to do—He was to visit His other sheep; He was to go to His Father.
Notwithstanding these obligations, He discerned that the people desired for Him to tarry a little longer. Then, with the Savior’s heart full of compassion, one of the greatest miracles in the history of the world occurred:
He stayed.
He blessed them.
He ministered to their children one by one.
He prayed for them; He wept with them.
And He healed them. (See 3 Nephi 17.)
His promise is eternal: He will heal us.
To those who have strayed from the covenant path, please know there is always hope, there is always healing, and there is always a way back.
His eternal message of hope is the healing balm for all who live in a troubled world. The Savior said, “I am the way, the truth, and the life” (John 14:6).
Brothers and sisters, let us remember to seek Him, to love Him, and to always remember Him.
I testify that God lives and that He loves us. I further testify that Jesus Christ is the Savior and Redeemer of the world. He is the mighty healer. I know that my Redeemer lives! In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Note


Russell M. Nelson, “Prepare for Blessings of the Temple,” Ensign, Mar. 2002, 21.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Lord Jesus Christ Teaches Us to Minister","year":"2023","month":"04"}



The Lord Jesus Christ Teaches Us to Minister

By Elder Juan A. Uceda
Of the Seventy

With our Savior’s help, we can love His precious sheep and minister to them as He would.


The Lord Jesus Christ said:
“I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. …
“As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.”1
In the Greek version of this scripture, the word for good also means “beautiful, magnificent.” So today, I wish to speak of the Good Shepherd, the Beautiful Shepherd, the Magnificent Shepherd, even Jesus Christ.
In the New Testament, He is called the “great shepherd,”2 the “chief Shepherd,”3 and “the Shepherd and Bishop of [our] souls.”4
In the Old Testament, Isaiah wrote that “he shall feed his flock like a shepherd.”5
In the Book of Mormon, He is called “the good shepherd”6 and the “great and true shepherd.”7

In the Doctrine and Covenants, He declares, “Wherefore, I am in your midst, and I am the good shepherd.”8
In our day, President Russell M. Nelson has declared: “The Good Shepherd lovingly cares for all sheep of His fold, and we are His true undershepherds. Our privilege is to bear His love and to add our own love to friends and neighbors—feeding, tending, and nurturing them—as the Savior would have us do.”9
More recently, President Nelson has said: “A hallmark of the Lord’s true and living Church will always be an organized, directed effort to minister to individual children of God and their families. Because it is His Church, we as His servants will minister to the one, just as He did. We will minister in His name, with His power and authority, and with His loving-kindness.”10
When the Pharisees and scribes murmured against the Lord, “saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them,”11 He responded by presenting three beautiful stories that we have come to know as the parable of the lost sheep, the parable of the lost coin, and the parable of the prodigal son.
It is interesting to note that when Luke, the Gospel writer, is introducing the three stories, he uses the word parable in the singular, not in the plural.12 It appears that the Lord is teaching one unique lesson with three stories—stories that present different numbers: 100 sheep, 10 coins, and 2 sons.
The key number in each of these stories, however, is the number one. And a lesson we might take from that number is that you might be an undershepherd for 100 elders and prospective elders in your elders quorum or an adviser to 10 young women or a teacher to 2 Primary children, but you always, always minister to them, care for them, and love them one by one, individually. You never say, “What a foolish sheep” or “After all, I do not really need that coin” or “What a rebellious son he is.” If you and I have with us “the pure love of Christ,”13 we, as the man in the story of the lost sheep, will “leave the ninety and nine … and go after that which is lost, until [… until … until we] find it.”14 Or, as the woman in the story of the lost coin, we will “light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently [… diligently] till [… till … till we] find it.”15 If we have with us “the pure love of Christ,” we will follow the example of the father in the story of the prodigal son, who, when the son “was yet a great way off, … saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.”16
Can we feel the urgency in the heart of the man who lost only one sheep? Or the urgency in the heart of the woman who lost just one coin? Or the ineffable love and compassion in the heart of the prodigal’s father?
My wife, Maria Isabel, and I served in Central America, being stationed in Guatemala City. There I had the opportunity to meet Julia, a faithful member of the Church. I had the impression to ask her about her family. Her mother died of cancer in 2011. Her father had been a faithful leader in his stake, serving as a bishop and as a counselor to his stake president for several years. He was a true undershepherd of the Lord. Julia told me of his tireless efforts to visit, to minister, and to serve. He indeed rejoiced in feeding and tending the precious sheep of the Lord. He remarried and stayed active in the Church.
A few years later, he went through a divorce, and now he had to attend church alone once again. He felt out of place and also felt that some people were critical of him because of his divorce. He stopped attending church as a negative spirit filled his heart.
Julia spoke highly of this wonderful undershepherd, who was a hardworking, loving, and compassionate man. I vividly remember that a feeling of urgency came to me as she was describing him. I just wanted to do something for that man, a man who had done so much for so many throughout those years.
She gave me his cell phone number, and I began calling him, hoping to have the chance to meet with him personally. After several weeks and many, many phone calls without success, one day he finally answered the phone.
I told him that I had met Julia, his daughter, and that I was captivated by the way he had served, ministered, and loved the precious sheep of the Lord for so many years. He was not expecting a comment like that. I told him that I really wanted to visit with him eye to eye, face to face. He asked me my purpose in proposing such a meeting. I replied, “I really want to meet the father of such a wonderful lady.” Then for a few seconds there was silence over the phone—a few seconds that seemed to me like an eternity. He simply said, “When and where?”
The day I met him, I invited him to share with me some of his experiences visiting, ministering, and serving the precious sheep of the Lord. As he was recounting some touching stories, I noticed that the tone of his voice changed and the same spirit he had felt so many times as an undershepherd came back. Now his eyes were filled with tears. I knew this was the right moment for me, but I found that I did not know what to say. I prayed in my mind, “Father, help me.”
Suddenly, I heard myself saying, “Brother Florian, as a servant of the Lord, I apologize for our not being there for you. Please, forgive us. Give us another chance to show you that we do love you. That we need you. That you are important to us.”
The following Sunday he was back. He had a long conversation with his bishop and remained active. A few months later he passed away—but he had come back. He had come back. I testify that with our Savior’s help, we can love His precious sheep and minister to them as He would. And so, there in Guatemala City the Lord Jesus Christ brought back one more precious sheep into His fold. And He taught me a lesson on ministering that I cannot forget. In the name of the Good Shepherd, the Beautiful Shepherd, the Magnificent Shepherd, even the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


John 10:11, 15.


Hebrews 13:20.


1 Peter 5:4.


1 Peter 2:25.


Isaiah 40:11.


Alma 5:38, 60.


Helaman 15:13.


Doctrine and Covenants 50:44.


Russell M. Nelson, “Shepherds, Lambs, and Home Teachers,” Ensign, Aug. 1994, 19.


Russell M. Nelson, “Ministering with the Power and Authority of God,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 69.


Luke 15:2.


See Luke 15:3.


Moroni 7:47.


Luke 15:4.


Luke 15:8.


Luke 15:20.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"One in Christ","year":"2023","month":"04"}



One in Christ

By Elder D. Todd Christofferson
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

It is only in and through our individual loyalty to and love of Jesus Christ that we can hope to be one.


As President Dallin H. Oaks has noted, today is Palm Sunday, the start of Holy Week, marking the Lord’s triumphal entry into Jerusalem, His suffering in Gethsemane and death on the cross just days later, and His glorious Resurrection on Easter Sunday. Let us resolve never to forget what Christ endured to redeem us.1 And let us never lose the overwhelming joy we will feel once again on Easter as we contemplate His victory over the grave and the gift of universal resurrection.
The evening before the trials and crucifixion that awaited Him, Jesus joined in a Passover meal with His Apostles. At the end of this Last Supper, in a sacred Intercessory Prayer, Jesus petitioned His Father in these words: “Holy Father, keep through thine own name [mine Apostles] whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.”2
Then, tenderly, the Savior expanded His petition to include all believers:
“Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word;
“That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us.”3
Becoming one is a recurring theme in the gospel of Jesus Christ and in God’s dealings with His children. With respect to the city of Zion in Enoch’s day, it is said that “they were of one heart and one mind.”4 Of the early Saints in the primitive Church of Jesus Christ, the New Testament records, “The multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul.”5
In our own dispensation, the Lord admonished, “I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine.”6 Among the reasons the Lord gave as to why the early Saints in Missouri had failed to establish a place of Zion was that they “are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom.”7
Where God prevails in all hearts and minds, the people are described as “in one, the children of Christ.”8
When the resurrected Savior appeared to the ancient Book of Mormon peoples, He noted with disapproval that in the past there had been disputations among the people about baptism and other matters. He commanded:
“There shall be no disputations among you, as there have hitherto been; neither shall there be disputations among you concerning the points of my doctrine, as there have hitherto been.

“For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention.”9
In our extremely contentious world, how can unity be achieved, especially in the Church, where we are to have “one Lord, one faith, one baptism”?10 Paul gives us the key:
“For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
“There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ.”11
We are too diverse and at times too discordant to be able to come together as one on any other basis or under any other name. Only in Jesus Christ can we truly become one.
Becoming one in Christ happens one by one—we each begin with ourselves. We are dual beings of flesh and spirit and are sometimes at war within ourselves. As Paul expressed:
“For I delight in the law of God after the inward man;
“But I see another law in [the] members [of my body], warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members.”12
Jesus was also a being of flesh and spirit. He was tested; He understands; He can help us achieve unity within.13 Therefore, drawing upon the light and the grace of Christ, we strive to give our spirit—and the Holy Spirit—dominance over the physical. And when we fall short, Christ, by His Atonement, has given us the gift of repentance and the opportunity to try again.
If individually we each “put on Christ,” then together we can hope to become one, as Paul said, “the body of Christ.”14 To “put on Christ” certainly includes making His “first and great commandment”15 our first and greatest commitment, and if we love God, we will keep His commandments.16
Unity with our brothers and sisters in the body of Christ grows as we heed the second commandment—inextricably connected to the first—to love others as ourselves.17 And I suppose an even more perfect unity would obtain among us if we followed the Savior’s higher and holier expression of this second commandment—to love one another not only as we love ourselves but as He loved us.18 In sum, it is “every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God.”19
President Marion G. Romney, a former counselor in the First Presidency, in explaining how enduring peace and unity are obtained, said:
“If a single person, yielding to Satan, is filled with the works of the flesh, he wars within himself. If two yield, they each war within themselves and fight with each other. If many people yield, a society [reaps] the harvest of great stress and contention. If the rulers of a country yield, there is world-wide contention.”
President Romney continued: “As the works of the flesh have universal application, so likewise does the gospel of peace. If one man lives it, he has peace within himself. If two men live it, they each have peace within themselves and with each other. If the citizens live it, the nation has domestic peace. When there are enough nations enjoying the fruit of the Spirit to control world affairs, then, and only then, will the war-drums throb no longer, and the battle flags be furl’d. … (See Alfred Lord Tennyson, “Locksley Hall,” The Complete Poetical Works of Tennyson, ed. W. J. Rolfe, Boston: Houghton-Mifflin Co., 1898, p. 93, lines 27–28.)”20
When we “put on Christ,” it becomes possible either to resolve or to lay aside differences, disagreements, and disputes. A rather dramatic example of overcoming division is found in our Church history. Elder Brigham Henry Roberts (commonly known as B. H. Roberts), born in England in 1857, served as a member of the First Council of the Seventy—what we refer to today as the Presidency of the Seventy. Elder Roberts was an able and tireless defender of the restored gospel and of the Church in some of its most difficult times.

In 1895, however, Elder Roberts’s service in the Church was put in jeopardy by contention. B. H. had been appointed as a delegate to the convention that drafted a constitution for Utah when it became a state. Afterward, he decided to become a candidate for the United States Congress but did not notify or seek permission from the First Presidency. President Joseph F. Smith, a counselor in the First Presidency, censured B. H. for that failure in a general priesthood meeting. Elder Roberts lost the election and felt his defeat was due in large part to President Smith’s statements. He was critical of Church leaders in some political speeches and interviews. He withdrew from active Church service. In a lengthy meeting in the Salt Lake Temple with members of the First Presidency and Council of the Twelve, B. H. remained adamant in justifying himself. Later, “President [Wilford] Woodruff gave [Elder Roberts] three weeks to reconsider his position. If he remained unrepentant, they would release him from the Seventy.”21
In a subsequent private meeting with Apostles Heber J. Grant and Francis Lyman, B. H. was initially unyielding, but love and the Holy Spirit ultimately prevailed. Tears came to his eyes. The two Apostles were able to respond to certain perceived slights and offenses that troubled B. H., and they left with a heartfelt plea for reconciliation. The next morning, after lengthy prayer, Elder Roberts sent a note to Elders Grant and Lyman that he was prepared to reunite with his brethren.22
When he later met with the First Presidency, Elder Roberts said, “I went to the Lord and received light and instruction through His Spirit to submit to the authority of God.”23 Motivated by his love of God, B. H. Roberts remained a faithful and an able Church leader to the end of his life.24

We can also see in this example that unity does not mean simply agreeing that everyone should do his or her own thing or go his or her own way. We cannot be one unless we all bend our efforts to the common cause. It means, in B. H. Roberts’s words, submitting to the authority of God. We are different members of the body of Christ, fulfilling different functions at different times—the ear, the eye, the head, the hand, the feet—yet all of one body.25 Therefore, our goal is “that there should be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another.”26
Unity does not require sameness, but it does require harmony. We can have our hearts knit together in love, be one in faith and doctrine, and still cheer for different teams, disagree on various political issues, debate about goals and the right way to achieve them, and many other such things. But we can never disagree or contend with anger or contempt for one another. Said the Savior:
“For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.
“Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should be done away.”27
A year ago, President Russell M. Nelson pled with us in these words: “None of us can control nations or the actions of others or even members of our own families. But we can control ourselves. My call today, dear brothers and sisters, is to end conflicts that are raging in your heart, your home, and your life. Bury any and all inclinations to hurt others—whether those inclinations be a temper, a sharp tongue, or a resentment for someone who has hurt you. The Savior commanded us to turn the other cheek [see 3 Nephi 12:39], to love our enemies, and to pray for those who despitefully use us [see 3 Nephi 12:44].”28
I say again that it is only in and through our individual loyalty to and love of Jesus Christ that we can hope to be one—one within, one at home, one in the Church, eventually one in Zion, and above all, one with the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost.
I return to the events of Holy Week and the ultimate triumph of our Redeemer. The Resurrection of Jesus Christ bears witness of His divinity and that He has overcome all things. His Resurrection bears witness that, bound to Him by covenant, we too may overcome all things and become one. His Resurrection bears witness that through Him, immortality and eternal life are realities.
This morning, I bear witness of His literal Resurrection and all that it implies, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Doctrine and Covenants 19:18–19.


John 17:11.


John 17:20–21.


Moses 7:18.


Acts 4:32.


Doctrine and Covenants 38:27.


Doctrine and Covenants 105:4.


4 Nephi 1:17, emphasis added; see also Mosiah 5:7.


3 Nephi 11:28–29.


Ephesians 4:5.


Galatians 3:27–28.


Romans 7:22–23.


See Hebrews 4:15: “We have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.”


See 1 Corinthians 12:12–13, 27.


See Matthew 22:37–38.


See John 14:15.


See Matthew 22:39.


See John 15:12.


Doctrine and Covenants 82:19.


Marion G. Romney, “The Price of Peace,” Ensign, Oct. 1983, 6.


See Saints: The Story of the Church of Jesus Christ in the Latter Days, vol. 3, Boldly, Nobly, and Independent, 1893–1955 (2022), 42–45.


See Saints, 3:45–46.


B. H. Roberts, in Saints, 3:47.


Interestingly, B. H. Roberts ran for Congress again in 1898, this time with First Presidency consent, and was elected. Given the deep prejudice against the Church at that time, however, and the fact that he had engaged in plural marriage, the House of Representatives refused to seat him. Nevertheless, in hearings before the House regarding his service, B. H. was an eloquent and impassioned defender of the Church and its doctrine. (See Saints, 3:83–86; Truman G. Madsen, Defender of the Faith: The B. H. Roberts Story [1980], 241–72.)


See 1 Corinthians 12:14–27.


1 Corinthians 12:25.


3 Nephi 11:29–30.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 97; emphasis in original.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Jesus Christ Is Relief","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Jesus Christ Is Relief

By President Camille N. Johnson
Relief Society General President

We can partner with the Savior to help provide temporal and spiritual relief for those in need—and in the process find our own relief. 


With faith in Jesus Christ and hope in what they had heard of His miracles, the caregivers of a man with palsy brought him to Jesus. They were innovative in getting him there—uncovering the roof and lowering the man, on his bed, to the place where Jesus was teaching. When Jesus “saw their faith, he said [to the man with palsy], thy sins are forgiven thee.”1 And then, “Arise, and take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house.”2 And immediately the man with palsy arose and took his bed and departed for home, “glorifying God.”3
What more do we know of the friends who provided care for the man with palsy? We know that the Savior recognized their faith. And having seen and heard the Savior and being a witness to His miracles, they were “amazed” and “glorified God.”4
Jesus Christ had provided the hoped-for healing—physical relief from pain and the crippling consequences of chronic disease. Significantly, the Savior also provided spiritual relief in cleansing the man from sin.
And the friends—in their efforts to care for one in need, they found the source of relief; they found Jesus Christ.
I testify that Jesus Christ is relief. Through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, we may be relieved of the burden and consequences of sin and be succored in our infirmities.
And because we love God and have covenanted to serve Him, we can partner with the Savior to help provide temporal and spiritual relief for those in need—and in the process find our own relief in Jesus Christ.5
Our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, invited us to overcome the world and find rest.6 He defined “true rest” as “relief and peace.” President Nelson said, “Because the Savior, through His infinite Atonement, redeemed each of us from weakness, mistakes, and sin, and because He experienced every pain, worry, and burden you have ever had, then as you truly repent and seek His help, you can rise above this present precarious world.”7 That is the relief Jesus Christ offers us!
Each of us is carrying a metaphorical backpack. It may be a basket balanced on your head or a satchel or a bundle of things wrapped in cloth and thrown over your shoulder. But for our thinking, let’s call it a backpack.
This metaphorical backpack is where we carry the burdens of living in a fallen world. Our burdens are like rocks in the backpack. Generally, there are three kinds:


Rocks there of our own doing because of sin.


Rocks in our backpack because of the poor decisions, misconduct, and unkindness of others.


And rocks we carry because we are living in a fallen condition. These include the rocks of disease, pain, chronic illness, grief, disappointment, loneliness, and the effects of natural disasters.



I joyfully declare that our mortal burdens, these rocks in our figurative backpack, need not feel heavy.
Jesus Christ can lighten our load.
Jesus Christ can lift our burdens.
Jesus Christ provides a way for us to be relieved of the weight of sin.
Jesus Christ is our relief.
He said:
“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest [that is, relief and peace].
“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.
“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”8
That the yoke is easy and the burden is light presumes we get in the yoke with the Savior, that we share our burdens with Him, that we let Him lift our load. That means entering into a covenant relationship with God and keeping that covenant, which, as President Nelson has explained, “makes everything about life easier.” He said, “Yoking yourself with the Savior means you have access to His strength and redeeming power.”9
So why are we stingy with our rocks? Why would a weary baseball pitcher refuse to leave the mound when a reliever is there ready to complete the game? Why would I insist on maintaining my post alone when the Reliever stands ready to keep it with me?
President Nelson has taught, “Jesus Christ … stands with open arms, hoping and willing to heal, forgive, cleanse, strengthen, purify, and sanctify us.”10
So why do we insist on carrying our rocks alone?
It is intended as a personal question for each of you to consider.
For me, it is the age-old vice of pride. “I’ve got this,” I say. “No worries; I’ll get it done.” It’s the great deceiver who wants me to hide from God, to turn away from Him, to go at it alone.
Brothers and sisters, I can’t go at it alone, and I don’t need to, and I won’t. Choosing to be bound to my Savior, Jesus Christ, through the covenants I have made with God, “I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.”11
Covenant keepers are blessed with the Savior’s relief.
Consider this example in the Book of Mormon: The people of Alma were persecuted with “tasks upon them, and … task-masters over them.”12 Forbidden to pray vocally, they “did pour out their hearts to [God]; and he did know the thoughts of their hearts.”13
And “the voice of the Lord came to them in their afflictions, saying: Lift up your heads and be of good comfort, for I know of the covenant which ye have made unto me; and I will covenant with my people and deliver them out of bondage.
“And I will also ease the burdens which are put upon your shoulders, that even you cannot feel them upon your backs.”14
And their burdens “were made light,” and “the Lord did strengthen them that they could bear up their burdens with ease, and they did submit cheerfully and with patience to all the will of the Lord.”15
Those covenant keepers received relief in the form of comfort, increased patience and cheerfulness, an ease in their burdens so that they felt light, and ultimately deliverance.16
Now let’s return to our own metaphorical backpack.
Repentance, through the Atonement of Jesus Christ, is what relieves us of the weight of the rocks of sin. And by this exquisite gift, God’s mercy relieves us from the heavy and otherwise insurmountable demands of justice.17
The Atonement of Jesus Christ also makes it possible for us to receive strength to forgive, which allows us to unload the weight we carry because of mistreatment by others.18
So how does the Savior relieve us of the burdens of living in a fallen world with mortal bodies subject to grief and pain?

Often, He performs that kind of relief through us! As covenant members of His Church, we promise “to mourn with those that mourn” and “comfort those that stand in need of comfort.”19 Because we are “come into the fold of God” and are “called his people,” we “are willing to bear one another’s burdens, that they may be light.”20
Our covenantal blessing is to partner with Jesus Christ in providing relief, both temporal and spiritual, to all of God’s children. We are a conduit through which He provides relief.21
And so, like the friends of the man with palsy, we “succor the weak, lift up the hands which hang down, and strengthen the feeble knees.”22 We “bear … one another’s burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ.”23 As we do, we come to know Him, become like Him, and find His relief.24
What is relief?
It is the removal or lightening of something painful, troubling, or burdensome, or the strength to endure it. It refers to a person who takes the place of another. It is the legal correction of a wrong.25 The Anglo-French word comes from Old French, the word relever, or “to raise up,” and from the Latin relevare, or “raise again.”26
Brothers and sisters, Jesus Christ is relief. I testify that He did rise again on the third day and, having fulfilled the loving and infinite Atonement, stands with open arms, offering to us the opportunity to rise again, be saved, and be exalted and become like Him. The relief He offers us is everlasting.
Like the women visited by the angel on that first Easter morning, I wish to “go quickly” and with “great joy” to bring the word that He is risen.27 In the name of our Savior, Jesus Christ, amen. 


Notes


Luke 5:20.


Mark 2:11.


Luke 5:25.


Luke 5:26.


See D. Todd Christofferson, “The First Commandment First” (Brigham Young University devotional, Mar. 22, 2022), 2, speeches.byu.edu: “Our love of God elevates our ability to love others more fully and perfectly because we in essence partner with God in the care of His children” (emphasis added).


See Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 95–98.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” 96.


Matthew 11:28–30.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” 97.


Russell M. Nelson, “We Can Do Better and Be Better,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 67.


Philippians 4:13.


Mosiah 24:9.


Mosiah 24:12.


Mosiah 24:13–14; emphasis added.


Mosiah 24:15.


See Mosiah 24:13–14.


See Alma 34:14–16; see also Mosiah 15:8–9.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Four Gifts That Jesus Christ Offers to You” (First Presidency Christmas devotional, Dec. 2, 2018), broadcasts.ChurchofJesusChrist.org: “A second gift the Savior offers you is the ability to forgive. Through His infinite Atonement, you can forgive those who have hurt you and who may never accept responsibility for their cruelty to you.
“It is usually easy to forgive one who sincerely and humbly seeks your forgiveness. But the Savior will grant you the ability to forgive anyone who has mistreated you in any way. Then their hurtful acts can no longer canker your soul.”


Mosiah 18:9.


Mosiah 18:8.


Relief Society, the women’s organization of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith on March 17, 1842, as “a divinely established appendage to the priesthood” (Dallin H. Oaks, “The Keys and Authority of the Priesthood,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2014, 51). In selecting a name for the new organization, the word benevolent was considered, but relief was favored by the women. Emma Smith, the organization’s first president, and Eliza R. Snow, its secretary who later served as the second president of the Relief Society, explained that benevolent was a popular word—popular with the institutions of the day—but that popular “should not be our guide.” Emma expounded that the word relief better described their mission. “We are going to do something extraordinary … we expect extraordinary occasions and pressing calls” (Emma Smith, in Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book, Mar. 17, 1842, 12, josephsmithpapers.org). Indeed, the mandate of Relief Society has always been to provide temporal and spiritual relief. Joseph Smith taught, “The Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls” (in Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book, June 9, 1842, 63, josephsmithpapers.org). And so the Relief Society continues to provide relief: “Relief of poverty, relief of illness; relief of doubt, relief of ignorance—relief of all that hinders the joy and progress of woman” (John A. Widtsoe, Evidences and Reconciliations, arr. G. Homer Durham, 3 vols. in 1 [1960], 308).


Doctrine and Covenants 81:5; see also Hebrews 12:12.


Galatians 6:2.


In one of the early meetings of the newly organized Relief Society, Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith, said, “We must cherish one another, watch over one another, comfort one another and gain instruction, that we may all sit down in heaven together.” Historian Jennifer Reeder wrote of this, “In a united cause to provide relief, the women partnered with Christ, and in so doing, they found His relief” (First: The Life and Faith of Emma Smith [2021], 130).


See Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, “relief.”


See Dictionary.com, “relief.”


See Matthew 28:1–8.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Followers of the Prince of Peace","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Followers of the Prince of Peace

By Elder Ulisses Soares
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

As we strive to develop attributes like the Savior’s, we can become instruments of His peace in the world.


In fulfillment of the prophecy given to Zechariah,1 Jesus triumphantly entered the Holy City riding upon a donkey, which was considered in literature an “ancient symbol of Jewish royalty,”2 as indeed befitted the King of kings and Prince of Peace.3 He was surrounded by a multitude of jubilant disciples who spread out their garments, palm leaves, and other foliage along the path where Jesus passed. They praised God, saying with a loud voice, “Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.”4 And again, “Hosanna to the Son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest.”5 This majestic event, which we celebrate on this day known as Palm Sunday, was a joyful prelude to the excruciating events that would occur during that fateful week culminating in the Savior’s selfless sacrifice and the magnificent miracle of the empty tomb.
As His followers, we are His peculiar people, called to proclaim His virtues,6 promoters of the peace so generously offered through Him and His atoning sacrifice. This peace is a gift promised to all who turn their hearts to the Savior and live righteously; such peace gives us the strength to enjoy mortal life and enables us to endure the painful trials of our journey.
In 1847, the Lord gave specific instructions to the pioneer Saints, who needed peace to remain calm and united as they faced unexpected difficulties on their westward journey. Among other things, the Lord instructed the Saints to “cease to contend one with another; cease to speak evil one of another.”7 The scriptures affirm that those who practice works of righteousness and strive to walk in the meekness of the Spirit of the Lord are promised the peace they need to survive the days of commotion in which we live today.8
As disciples of the Prince of Peace, we have been instructed to live with “hearts knit together in unity and in love one towards another.”9 Our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, recently stated, “Contention violates everything the Savior stood for and taught.”10 Our prophet also implored that we do all we can to end personal conflicts that are currently raging in our hearts and in our lives.11
Let us consider these principles in view of Christ’s pure love for us that we, as His followers, seek to have for one another. The scriptures define this kind of love as charity.12 When we think of charity, our minds usually turn to generous acts and donations to relieve the suffering of those who are experiencing physical, material, or emotional difficulties. Still, charity is not only related to something we donate to someone, but it’s an attribute of the Savior and can become part of our character. It is not surprising that the Lord instructed us to clothe ourselves “with the bond of charity, … which is the bond of perfectness and peace.”13 Without charity, we are nothing14 and we cannot inherit the place the Lord has prepared for us in the mansions of our Heavenly Father.15
Jesus perfectly exemplified what it means to own this bond of perfection and peace, especially when facing the agonizing events that preceded His martyrdom. Think for a moment about what Jesus must have felt as He humbly washed His disciples’ feet, knowing that one of them would betray Him that very night.16 Or when Jesus, hours later, mercifully healed the ear of one of the men who had accompanied Judas, His betrayer, to arrest Him.17 Or even when the Savior, standing in front of Pilate, was unfairly accused by the chief priests and elders, and not a word He uttered against the false charges against Him, and He left the Roman governor marveling.18
Through these three tragic incidents, the Savior, despite being burdened with excessive sadness and stress, taught us by His example that “charity suffereth long, and is kind; … envieth not; … vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, [and] thinketh no evil.”19
Another important aspect to emphasize, and one that has direct implications on our discipleship and how we promote the peace of the Savior, is the manner in which we treat each other. During His earthly ministry, the Savior’s teachings focused—not only, but particularly—on the virtues of love, charity, patience, humility, and compassion—fundamental attributes to those who want to become closer to Him and promote His peace. Such attributes are gifts from God, and as we strive to develop them, we will begin to see our neighbor’s differences and weaknesses with more empathy, sensitivity, respect, and tolerance. One of the most evident signs that we are drawing closer to the Savior and becoming more like Him is the loving, patient, and kind way with which we treat our fellow beings, whatever the circumstances.
We often see people who engage in negative and even derogatory comments about the perceived characteristics, weaknesses, and opinions of others, mainly when such characteristics and opinions differ or contradict how they act and think. It is very common to see these people passing on such comments to others, who repeat what they heard without truly knowing all the circumstances surrounding a situation. Unfortunately, social media encourages this kind of behavior in the name of relative truths and transparency. Without restraint, digital conversation often leads people to personal attacks and heated disputes, creating disappointments, wounding hearts, and spreading flaming hostility.

Nephi prophesied that in the latter days, the enemy would rage and stir up people to anger against what is good.20 The scriptures teach that “every thing which inviteth and enticeth to do good, and to love God, and to serve him, is inspired of God.”21 On the other hand, “that which is evil cometh of the devil; for the devil is an enemy unto God, and fighteth against him continually, and inviteth and enticeth to sin, and to do that which is evil continually.”22
Considering this prophetic teaching, it is not surprising that one of the adversary’s tactics is to stir up enmity and hate in the hearts of God’s children. He rejoices when he sees people criticizing, ridiculing, and slandering one another. This behavior can destroy a person’s character, reputation, and self-esteem, particularly when the person is judged unfairly. It is critical to point out that when we allow this type of attitude in our lives, we make room in our hearts for the enemy to plant the seed of discord among us, risking falling into his voracious trap.
If we are not careful with our thoughts, words, and actions, we may end up being entangled by the cunning tricks of the enemy, destroying our relationships with the people around us and our loved ones.
Brothers and sisters, as the Lord’s peculiar people and promoters of His peace, we cannot afford to allow these tricks of the evil one to take place in our hearts. We cannot carry such a corrosive burden that destroys feelings, relationships, and even lives. The gospel represents good tidings of great joy.
Of course, none of us is perfect, and certainly there are times when we are beguiled into this type of behavior. In His perfect love and omniscient knowledge of our human tendencies, the Savior always tries to warn us of such dangers. He taught us, “For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.”23
My dear brothers and sisters, as we strive to develop attributes like the Savior’s, we can become instruments of His peace in the world according to the pattern that He Himself established. I invite you to consider ways we can transform ourselves into uplifting and supportive people, people who have an understanding and forgiving heart, people who look for the best in others, always remembering that “if there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things.”24
I promise you that as we pursue and develop these attributes, we will become more and more cordial and sensitive to the needs of our fellow beings25 and will experience joy, peace, and spiritual growth.26 Undoubtedly, the Lord will recognize our efforts and give us the gifts we need to be more tolerant and patient with one another’s differences, weaknesses, and imperfections. Furthermore, we will be better able to resist the urge to take offense or offend those who hurt us. Our desire to forgive, as the Savior did, those who mistreat us or speak evil about us will surely increase and will become part of our character.
May we today, on this Palm Sunday, spread out our robes of love and palm leaves of charity, walking in the footsteps of the Prince of Peace as we prepare to celebrate, this coming Sunday, the miracle of the empty tomb. As brothers and sisters in Christ, let us joyfully proclaim, “Hosanna to the Son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest.”27
I testify that Jesus Christ lives and that His perfect love, expressed through His atoning sacrifice, is extended to all who desire to walk with Him and enjoy His peace in this world and in the world to come. I say these things in the holy name of the Savior and Redeemer, Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Zechariah 9:9.


In James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ (1916), 517.


See Joseph Smith Translation, Psalm 24:9 (in the Bible appendix); Isaiah 9:6; 1 Timothy 6:15; Revelation 17:14; 19:16; 2 Nephi 19:6.


Luke 19:38.


Matthew 21:9; see also Mark 11:8–10; John 12:12–14.


See 1 Peter 2:9.


Doctrine and Covenants 136:23.


See Philippians 4:7; 3 Nephi 11:29; Doctrine and Covenants 19:23; 59:23.


Mosiah 18:21.


Russell M. Nelson, “Preaching the Gospel of Peace,” Liahona, May 2022, 6.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 97, 100.


See 2 Nephi 26:30; 33:7–9; Ether 12:33–34; Moroni 7:47.


Doctrine and Covenants 88:125.


See 2 Nephi 26:30; Moroni 7:44–47.


See Ether 12:34; Moroni 10:20–21.


See John 13:14–18.


See Luke 22:50–51; John 18:10–12.


See Matthew 27:12–14.


1 Corinthians 13:4–5; see also Moroni 7:45–47.


See 2 Nephi 28:20.


Moroni 7:13.


Moroni 7:12.


Matthew 7:2; see also Topical Guide, “Judge.”


Articles of Faith 1:13.


See Mosiah 2:17.


See “How Do I Develop Christlike Attributes?,” Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Missionary Service (2019), 121–32.


Matthew 21:9.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"When to Receive Your Patriarchal Blessing","year":"2023","month":"04"}



When to Receive Your Patriarchal Blessing

By Elder Kazuhiko Yamashita
Of the Seventy

When you receive your blessing, you will realize and feel how Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ love you and how They focus on you individually.


Yesterday my dear friend Elder Randall K. Bennett talked about patriarchal blessings. It was a great message and inspired us all. My dear brothers and sisters, may I talk about patriarchal blessings as well? Patriarchs, as requests for patriarchal blessings may increase, I pray that the Lord will bless you as you continue to magnify your calling.
As I go to stake conferences, I always visit with the stake patriarch and his spouse. Patriarchs are gentle, obedient, and incredible leaders called of God. They tell me many wonderful spiritual experiences. I ask them the age of the youngest and the oldest person to whom they have given a blessing. So far the youngest was 11, and the oldest was 93.
I received my patriarchal blessing as a new member of the Church, at age 19, two years after I was baptized. My patriarch was incredibly old. He joined the Church in 1916 and was a pioneer of the Church in Japan. It was my great honor to receive my patriarchal blessing from that remarkable disciple of the Lord. His Japanese was a bit difficult for me to understand, but it was powerful.
The patriarchs I have met tell me that many individuals receive their patriarchal blessings just before serving a mission. My dear young men, young women, parents, and bishops, patriarchal blessings are not only for preparation to serve a mission. Worthy baptized members may receive their patriarchal blessing when the time is right for them.1
Dear adult members, some of you have not yet received your patriarchal blessings. Remember, there is no maximum age.
My mother-in-law was a very active Church member, serving as a Relief Society teacher until she passed away at age 91. I was sad to learn that she did not receive a patriarchal blessing. She experienced many difficulties in her life, and because she did not have a priesthood holder in the home, she did not receive many priesthood blessings. A patriarchal blessing may have given her comfort when she needed it most.
Adults, if you have not yet received a patriarchal blessing, please do not worry! Everyone’s spiritual timeline is different. If you are 35 or 85 and you have a desire, talk to your bishop about receiving your blessing.
New members of the Church, have you heard of patriarchal blessings? I didn’t know about the opportunity to receive one when I joined the Church, but my beloved bishop told me about patriarchal blessings and encouraged me to prepare to receive mine after I was baptized. My dear new members, you can receive a patriarchal blessing as well. The Lord will help you prepare for this sacred opportunity.
Let’s consider two purposes for a patriarchal blessing:


A patriarchal blessing contains personal counsel from the Lord to you.2


A patriarchal blessing declares your lineage in the house of Israel.


Your patriarchal blessing is a message from your Heavenly Father and will likely include promises and inspired counsel to guide you throughout your life. A patriarchal blessing is not going to map out your life or answer all your questions. If it doesn’t mention an important life event, do not take that to mean you won’t have that opportunity. Likewise, there is no guarantee everything in your blessing will come to pass in this life. A patriarchal blessing is eternal, and if you live worthy, promises that are not fulfilled in this life will be granted in the next.3
As you receive a declaration of lineage, you will come to know that you are of the house of Israel and the seed of Abraham.4 To understand the significance of this, focus on the promises the Lord made to the house of Israel through Abraham.
Those promises include:


“His posterity would be numerous (see Genesis 17:5–6; Abraham 2:9; 3:14).


“His seed, or descendants, would receive the gospel and bear the priesthood (see Abraham 2:9).


“Through the ministry of his seed, ‘all the families of the earth [would] be blessed, even with the blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal’ (Abraham 2:11).”5


As members of the Church, we are children of the covenant.6 We receive the blessings of the Abrahamic covenant as we obey the laws and ordinances of the gospel.
Preparation for your patriarchal blessing will help you increase your faith in Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ. And when you receive your patriarchal blessing and read and ponder it, you can focus on Them more often.
President Thomas S. Monson explained, “The same Lord who provided a Liahona for Lehi provides for you and for me today a rare and valuable gift to give direction to our lives, to mark the hazards to our safety, and to chart the way, even safe passage—not to a promised land, but to our heavenly home.”7
My dear bishops, parents, elders quorum and Relief Society presidents, ward mission leaders, ministering brothers and sisters, please encourage those young men and young women, adult members, and new members who have not yet received their patriarchal blessing to seek the Lord’s direction and help in preparing themselves to do so.
I frequently and prayerfully read my patriarchal blessing; it always gives me encouragement. I recognize what the Lord expects of me, and it has helped me to repent and be humble. When I read and ponder it, I desire to live worthy of receiving its promised blessings.
Just as scriptures we have read many times have new meaning to us later, our patriarchal blessing will have a different meaning to us at different times. Mine has a different meaning now than it did when I was 30 and when I was 50. It is not that the words change, but we see them in a different way.
President Dallin H. Oaks declared that a patriarchal blessing “is given under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit and should be read and interpreted under the influence of that same Spirit. The meaning and significance of a patriarchal blessing will be taught line upon line in the course of time by the power of the same Spirit that inspired [it].”8
Brothers and sisters, I bear my witness that Heavenly Father and His Beloved and Only Begotten Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, live. They love us. Patriarchal blessings are sacred gifts from Them. When you receive your blessing, you will realize and feel how They love you and how They focus on you individually.
The Book of Mormon is another testament of Jesus Christ. And I am grateful to be led by a living prophet, President Russell M. Nelson.
I am so grateful for our Savior, Jesus Christ. This Easter Sunday I will focus on Him and His Resurrection and worship Him and give thanks for His sacrifice. I know He suffered so deeply because He loves us so deeply. I know He was resurrected because of His love for us. He is real. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 18.17, ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See “Patriarchal Blessings,” in True to the Faith (2004), 112.


See “Patriarchal Blessings,” in True to the Faith, 113.


See Abraham 2:10.


“Abrahamic Covenant,” in True to the Faith, 5.


See 3 Nephi 20:25–26.


Thomas S. Monson, “Your Patriarchal Blessing: A Liahona of Light,” Ensign, Nov. 1986, 65.


Dallin H. Oaks, “Patriarchal Blessings,” Worldwide Leadership Training Meeting: The Patriarch, Jan. 8, 2005, 10.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"My Mind Caught Hold upon This Thought of Jesus Christ","year":"2023","month":"04"}



My Mind Caught Hold upon This Thought of Jesus Christ

By Elder Neil L. Andersen
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

As you continue to attentively catch hold of the thought of Jesus Christ, I promise you not only heavenly guidance but heavenly power.


In this beautiful Easter season, I echo the prayer of this powerful hymn, “Guide us, O thou great Jehovah.”1
A remarkable story in the Book of Mormon tells of a young man, from a prominent family, named Alma, whom the scriptures describe as an idolatrous unbeliever.2 He was articulate and convincing, using flattery to persuade others to follow him. Astonishingly, an angel appeared to Alma and his friends. Alma fell to the earth and was so weak that he was carried helplessly to his father’s home. He remained in a seemingly comatose state for three days.3 Later, he explained that while he appeared unconscious to those around him, his mind was very active as his soul grieved, thinking about his life of disregarding the commandments of God. He described his mind as being “harrowed up by the memory of [his] many sins”4 and “racked with eternal torment.”5
In his deep despair, he remembered being taught in his youth about “the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world.”6 Next he made this very compelling statement: “As my mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried within my heart: O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me.”7 As he appealed for the divine power of the Savior, something miraculous happened: “When I thought this,” he said, “I could remember my pains no more.”8 Suddenly he felt peace and light. “Nothing [was] so exquisite and sweet as was my joy,”9 he declared.
Alma “caught hold upon” the truth of Jesus Christ. If we were using the words “caught hold upon” in a physical sense, we might say, “He caught hold upon the guardrail just as he was falling,” meaning he reached out suddenly and tightly seized something solidly cemented to a secure foundation.
In Alma’s case, it was his mind that reached out and secured this powerful truth of Jesus Christ’s atoning sacrifice. Acting in faith on that truth, and by the power and grace of God, he was rescued from despair and filled with hope.
While our experiences may not be as dramatic as Alma’s, they are nonetheless as eternally significant. Our minds have also “caught hold upon this thought” of Jesus Christ and His merciful sacrifice, and our souls have felt the light and joy that follow.


Securing the Thought of Jesus Christ

My prayer at this Easter season is that we will more consciously shape, strengthen, and secure this preeminent thought of Jesus Christ in the chambers of our soul,10 allowing it to eagerly flow into our mind, guide us in what we think and do, and continually bring the sweet joy of the Savior’s love.11
Filling our mind with the power of Jesus Christ does not mean that He is the only thought we have. But it does mean that all our thoughts are circumscribed in His love, His life and teachings, and His atoning sacrifice and glorious Resurrection. Jesus is never in a forgotten corner, because our thoughts of Him are always present and “all that is in [us adores] him!”12 We pray and rehearse in our mind experiences that have brought us closer to Him. We welcome into our mind divine images, holy scriptures, and inspired hymns to gently cushion the countless daily thoughts rushing through our busy lives. Our love for Him does not shield us from the sadness and sorrow in this mortal life, but it allows us to walk through the challenges with a strength far beyond our own.


Jesus, the very thought of thee
With sweetness fills my breast;
But sweeter far thy face to see
And in thy presence rest.13


Remember, you are a spirit child of Heavenly Father. As the Apostle Paul explains, we are “the offspring of God.”14 You have lived with your own individual identity long before coming to earth. Our Father created a perfect plan for us to come to earth, learn, and return to Him. He sent His Beloved Son that through the power of His infinite Atonement and Resurrection, we live beyond the grave; and as we are willing to exercise faith in Him and repent of our sins,15 we are forgiven and receive the hope of eternal life.16



Giving Our Mind and Spirit Exceptional Attention

In this mortal life, our mind and spirit need exceptional attention.17 Our mind allows us to live, to choose, and to discern good and evil.18 Our spirit receives the confirming witness that God is our Father, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that Their teachings are our guide to happiness here and eternal life beyond the grave.
The mind of Alma caught hold upon this thought of Jesus Christ. It changed his life. General conference is a time to understand what the Lord would have us do and become. It is also a time to reflect on our progress. As my assignments have taken me throughout the world, I have observed an increasing spiritual strength in the righteous, devoted members of the Church.
Five years ago, we were asked to place the Savior more prominently in all we do by using the true name of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.19 We are speaking His name more earnestly.
Four years ago, by reducing the time of our sacrament meeting, we increased our focus on partaking of the Lord’s sacrament. We are thinking more of Jesus Christ and are more serious in our promise to always remember Him.20
With the isolation of the worldwide pandemic and the help of Come, Follow Me, the teachings of the Savior are becoming more prominent in our homes, helping our worship of the Savior during the week.
By following President Russell M. Nelson’s counsel to “hear Him,”21 we are refining our ability to recognize the whisperings of the Holy Ghost and to see the hand of the Lord in our lives.
With the announcement and completion of dozens of temples, we are more frequently entering the house of the Lord and receiving His promised blessings. We are feeling more powerfully the transcendent beauty of our Savior and Redeemer.
President Nelson said: “There is nothing easy or automatic about becoming [a] powerful [disciple]. Our focus must be riveted on the Savior and His gospel. It is mentally rigorous to strive to look unto Him in every thought.”22
By focusing our attention on Jesus Christ, all else around us—while still present—is viewed through our love for Him. Less important distractions fade, and we remove those things that are not in keeping with His light and character. As you continue to attentively catch hold of this thought of Jesus Christ, trust in Him, and keep His commandments, I promise you not only heavenly guidance but heavenly power—power that brings strength to your covenants, peace to your difficulties, and joy to your blessings.



Remembering Jesus Christ

A few weeks ago, Kathy and I visited the home of Matt and Sarah Johnson. On the wall was a picture of their precious family, a beautiful image of the Savior, and an illustration of the temple.
Their four daughters, Maddy, Ruby, Claire, and June, spoke happily about how much they loved their mother.
For over a year Sarah had regularly scheduled Saturday appointments for the family to attend the temple together so that the girls could participate in baptisms for family members who lived previously.
In November of last year, Sarah scheduled a family temple appointment for the last week in December on Thursday instead of Saturday. “I hope you’re OK with that,” she said to Matt.
Sarah had been diagnosed with cancer, but the doctors anticipated she would live two or three more years. During a sacrament meeting, Sarah had shared her powerful testimony, saying that whatever the outcome for her, she loved the Savior with all her heart and that “the victory had already been won” by Him. As December progressed, unexpectedly Sarah’s health rapidly declined, and she was admitted to the hospital. In the early morning of Thursday, December 29, she quietly completed her mortality. Matt had been by Sarah’s side all through the night.
With his heart breaking, and completely exhausted physically and emotionally, he arrived home, sorrowing with his daughters. As Matt glanced at his phone, he noticed the reminder of the unusual Thursday temple appointment Sarah had scheduled for later that day. Matt said, “When I first saw it, I thought, This just isn’t going to work.”
But then Matt’s mind caught hold upon this thought: “The Savior lives. There is no place we would rather be as a family than in His holy house.”

Matt, Maddy, Ruby, Claire, and June arrived at the temple for the appointment Sarah had scheduled for them. With tears streaming down his cheeks, Matt performed the baptisms with his daughters. They deeply felt their love and eternal bond with Sarah, and they felt the immense love and comforting peace of the Savior. Matt tenderly shared, “While I feel deep sorrow and grief, I am shouting for joy, knowing my Father’s wonderful plan of salvation.”
In this Easter season, I witness the complete and absolute truth of the Savior’s incomparable atoning sacrifice and of His glorious Resurrection. As your mind remains firmly and forever upon the thought of Jesus Christ, and as you continue to focus your life more fully on the Savior, I promise you that you will feel His hope, His peace, and His love. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


“Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah,” Hymns, no. 83.


See Mosiah 27:8.


See Alma 36:10.


Alma 36:17.


Alma 36:12.


Alma 36:17.


Alma 36:18. The other time “caught hold” is used in the Book of Mormon is speaking of those who “caught hold of the end of the rod of iron” (1 Nephi 8:24, 30).


Alma 36:19.


Alma 36:21.


“The greatest battle of life is fought within the silent chambers of your own soul” (David O. McKay, in Conference Report, Apr. 1967, 84).


“[Thoughts] sponsor all action. Our thoughts are the switchboard, the control panel governing our actions” (Boyd K. Packer, That All May Be Edified [1982], 33).
President Dallin H. Oaks taught: “We can suppress evil desires and substitute righteous ones. This involves education and practice. President Joseph F. Smith taught that the ‘education … of our desires is one of far-reaching importance’” (Pure in Heart [1988], 149).


“Praise to the Lord, the Almighty,” Hymns, no. 72.


“Jesus, the Very Thought of Thee,” Hymns, no. 141.


Acts 17:29.


See Doctrine and Covenants 58:42–43.


See Doctrine and Covenants 14:7.


“There is none else save God that knowest thy thoughts and the intents of thy heart” (Doctrine and Covenants 6:16).


“A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh” (Luke 6:45).


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Correct Name of the Church,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 87–89.


Our covenant each week in the sacrament prayer is that we will “always remember him” (Moroni 4:3; Doctrine and Covenants 20:77). The Book of Mormon encourages us by using the word twice, one after another: “remember, remember” (Mosiah 2:41; Alma 37:13; Helaman 5:9). Spiritually remembering comes through the power of the Holy Ghost: “He shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance” (John 14:26).


Russell M. Nelson, “Hear Him,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2020, 90.


Russell M. Nelson, “Drawing the Power of Jesus Christ into Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2017, 41. President Nelson also said, “The joy [Latter-day Saints] feel has little to do with the circumstances of our lives and everything to do with the focus of our lives” (“Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 82).



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"A Voice of Gladness!","year":"2023","month":"04"}



A Voice of Gladness!

By Elder Kevin R. Duncan
Of the Seventy

The building of temples has been one of the highest priorities of all prophets since the Prophet Joseph Smith.


“Now, what do we hear in the gospel which we have received? A voice of gladness! A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of truth out of the earth; … a voice of gladness for the living and the dead; glad tidings of great joy.”1
Brothers and sisters, it is almost impossible to hear these words from the Prophet Joseph Smith and not break out into a great big smile!
Joseph’s jubilant expression truly captures the full and majestic joy found in God our Heavenly Father’s great plan of happiness, for He has assured us, “Men are, that they might have joy.”2
We all shouted for joy3 in our premortal life when we heard God’s plan of happiness, and we continue to shout for joy here as we live according to His plan. But what exactly was the context for this happy declaration from the Prophet? What spurred these deep and heartfelt emotions?
The Prophet Joseph had been teaching about baptism for the dead. This was indeed a glorious revelation that was received with great joy. When Church members first learned that they could be baptized for their deceased loved ones, they rejoiced. Wilford Woodruff said, “The moment I heard of it, my soul leaped [for] joy!”4
Baptism for our deceased loved ones wasn’t the only truth the Lord would reveal and restore. There were a host of other gifts, or endowments, that God had been eager to bestow upon His sons and daughters.
These other gifts included priesthood authority, covenants and ordinances, marriages that could last forever, the sealing of children to their parents within the family of God, and ultimately the blessing of returning home to the presence of God, our Heavenly Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ. All these blessings were made possible through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
Because God considered these to be among His highest and holiest blessings,5 He instructed that sacred buildings be erected where He could confer these precious gifts upon His children.6 These buildings would be His home on earth. These buildings would be temples where that which was sealed or bound on earth in His name, by His word, and with His authority would be bound in the heavens.7
As members of the Church today, some of us may find it easy to take these glorious eternal truths for granted. They have become second nature to us. Sometimes it is helpful when we see them through the eyes of those who learn about them for the very first time. This became evident to me through a recent experience.
Last year, just prior to the rededication of the Tokyo Japan Temple, many guests not of our faith toured that temple. One such tour included a thoughtful leader from another religion. We taught our guest about Heavenly Father’s plan of happiness, Jesus Christ’s redeeming role in that plan, and the doctrine that families can be united eternally through the sealing ordinance.
At the conclusion of the tour, I invited our friend to share his feelings. In reference to the uniting of families—past, present, and future—this good man asked in all sincerity, “Do the members of your faith truly understand just how profound this doctrine is?” He added, “This may well be one of the only teachings that can unite this world that is so divided.”
What a powerful observation. This man was not moved simply by the exquisite craftsmanship of the temple but rather by the stunning and profound doctrine that families are united and sealed to Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ forever.8
We should not be surprised, then, when even someone not of our faith recognizes the majesty of what happens in the temple. What could become common or routine for us is sometimes seen in its splendor and majesty by those who hear it or feel it for the very first time.
Although temples had existed anciently, with the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the building of temples has been one of the highest priorities of all prophets since the Prophet Joseph Smith. And it is easy to understand why.
When the Prophet Joseph was teaching about baptism for the dead, he revealed another great truth. He taught: “Let me assure you that these are principles in relation to the dead and the living that cannot be lightly passed over, as pertaining to our salvation. For their salvation is necessary and essential to our salvation, … they without us cannot be made perfect—neither can we without our dead be made perfect.”9
As we can see, the need for temples and the work that is done for both the living and the dead become very clear. 
The adversary is on the alert. His power is threatened by the ordinances and covenants performed in temples, and he does anything he can to try to stop the work. Why? Because he knows of the power that comes from this sacred work. As each new temple is dedicated, the saving power of Jesus Christ expands throughout the world to counteract the efforts of the adversary and to redeem us as we come unto Him. As temples and covenant keepers grow in number, the adversary grows weaker.
In the early days of the Church, some would worry when a new temple would be announced, for they would say, “We never began to build a temple without the bells of hell starting to ring.” But Brigham Young courageously retorted, “I want to hear them ring again.”10
In this mortal life, we will never escape the war, but we can have power over the enemy. That power and strength come from Jesus Christ as we make and keep temple covenants.

President Russell M. Nelson has taught: “The time is coming when those who do not obey the Lord will be separated from those who do. Our safest insurance is to continue to be worthy of admission to His holy house.”11
Here are some additional blessings God has promised us through His prophet:
Do you need miracles? Our prophet has said: “I promise you that the Lord will bring the miracles He knows you need as you make sacrifices to serve and worship in His temples.”12
Do you need the healing and strengthening power of the Savior Jesus Christ? President Nelson reassures us that “everything taught in the temple … increases our understanding of Jesus Christ. … As we keep our covenants, He endows us with His healing, strengthening power. And oh, how we will need His power in the days ahead.”13
On the first Palm Sunday, as Jesus Christ triumphantly entered Jerusalem, a multitude of His disciples “rejoice[d] and praise[d] God with a loud voice … saying, Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord.”14
How fitting that on Palm Sunday of 1836, the Kirtland Temple was being dedicated. On that occasion the disciples of Jesus Christ were rejoicing as well. In that dedicatory prayer, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared these words of praise:
“O Lord God Almighty, hear us … and answer us from heaven, … where thou sittest enthroned, with glory, honor, power, majesty, [and] might. …
“… Help us by the power of thy Spirit, that we may mingle our voices with those bright, shining seraphs around thy throne, with acclamations of praise, singing Hosanna to God and the Lamb!
“And let these … thy saints shout aloud for joy.”15
Brothers and sisters, today on this Palm Sunday, let us as disciples of Jesus Christ also praise our holy God and rejoice in His goodness to us. “What do we hear in the gospel which we have received?” Truly “a voice of gladness!”16
I witness that you will feel joy more and more as you enter the holy temples of the Lord. I witness that you will experience the joy He in turn has for you, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Doctrine and Covenants 128:19.


2 Nephi 2:25; see also Isaiah 55:12.


See Job 38:7.


Wilford Woodruff, “Remarks,” Deseret News, May 27, 1857, 91; punctuation modernized.


See Doctrine and Covenants 14:7.


See Doctrine and Covenants 124:39.


See Doctrine and Covenants 132:45–46.


President Joseph F. Smith taught, “There has got to be a welding together and a joining together of parents and children and children and parents until the whole chain of God’s family shall be welded together into one chain, and they shall all become the family of God and His Christ” (Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph F. Smith [2011], 411).


Doctrine and Covenants 128:15.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Brigham Young (1997), 300.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Future of the Church: Preparing the World for the Savior’s Second Coming,” Ensign or Liahona, Apr. 2020, 9.


Russell M. Nelson, “Becoming Exemplary Latter-day Saints,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 114.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 93–94.


Luke 19:37–38.


Doctrine and Covenants 109:77, 79–80.


Doctrine and Covenants 128:19.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Peacemakers Needed","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Peacemakers Needed

By President Russell M. Nelson
President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

You have your agency to choose contention or reconciliation. I urge you to choose to be a peacemaker, now and always.


My dear brothers and sisters, it is a joy to be with you. During these past six months, you have been constantly on my mind and in my prayers. I pray that the Holy Ghost will communicate what the Lord wants you to hear as I speak to you now.
During my surgical internship many years ago, I assisted a surgeon who was amputating a leg filled with highly infectious gangrene. The operation was difficult. Then, to add to the tension, one of the team performed a task poorly, and the surgeon erupted in anger. In the middle of his tantrum, he threw his scalpel loaded with germs. It landed in my forearm!
Everyone in the operating room—except the out-of-control surgeon—was horrified by this dangerous breach of surgical practice. Gratefully, I did not become infected. But this experience left a lasting impression on me. In that very hour, I promised myself that whatever happened in my operating room, I would never lose control of my emotions. I also vowed that day never to throw anything in anger—whether it be scalpels or words.
Even now, decades later, I find myself wondering if the contaminated scalpel that landed in my arm was any more toxic than the venomous contention that infects our civic dialogue and too many personal relationships today. Civility and decency seem to have disappeared during this era of polarization and passionate disagreements.
Vulgarity, faultfinding, and evil speaking of others are all too common. Too many pundits, politicians, entertainers, and other influencers throw insults constantly. I am greatly concerned that so many people seem to believe that it is completely acceptable to condemn, malign, and vilify anyone who does not agree with them. Many seem eager to damage another’s reputation with pathetic and pithy barbs!
Anger never persuades. Hostility builds no one. Contention never leads to inspired solutions. Regrettably, we sometimes see contentious behavior even within our own ranks. We hear of those who belittle their spouses and children, of those who use angry outbursts to control others, and of those who punish family members with the “silent treatment.” We hear of youth and children who bully and of employees who defame their colleagues.
My dear brothers and sisters, this should not be. As disciples of Jesus Christ, we are to be examples of how to interact with others—especially when we have differences of opinion. One of the easiest ways to identify a true follower of Jesus Christ is how compassionately that person treats other people.
The Savior made this clear in His sermons to followers in both hemispheres. “Blessed are the peacemakers,” He said.1 “Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.”2 And then, of course, He gave the admonition that challenges each of us: “Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you.”3
Before His death, the Savior commanded His Twelve Apostles to love one another as He had loved them.4 And then He added, “By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.”5
The Savior’s message is clear: His true disciples build, lift, encourage, persuade, and inspire—no matter how difficult the situation. True disciples of Jesus Christ are peacemakers.6
Today is Palm Sunday. We are preparing to commemorate the most important and transcendent event ever recorded on earth, which is the Atonement and Resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. One of the best ways we can honor the Savior is to become a peacemaker.7
The Savior’s Atonement made it possible for us to overcome all evil—including contention. Make no mistake about it: contention is evil! Jesus Christ declared that those who have “the spirit of contention” are not of Him but are “of the devil, who is the father of contention, and [the devil] stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.”8 Those who foster contention are taking a page out of Satan’s playbook, whether they realize it or not. “No man can serve two masters.”9 We cannot support Satan with our verbal assaults and then think that we can still serve God.
My dear brothers and sisters, how we treat each other really matters! How we speak to and about others at home, at church, at work, and online really matters. Today, I am asking us to interact with others in a higher, holier way. Please listen carefully. “If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy”10 that we can say about another person—whether to his face or behind her back—that should be our standard of communication.
If a couple in your ward gets divorced, or a young missionary returns home early, or a teenager doubts his testimony, they do not need your judgment. They need to experience the pure love of Jesus Christ reflected in your words and actions.
If a friend on social media has strong political or social views that violate everything you believe in, an angry, cutting retort by you will not help. Building bridges of understanding will require much more of you, but that is exactly what your friend needs.
Contention drives away the Spirit—every time. Contention reinforces the false notion that confrontation is the way to resolve differences; but it never is. Contention is a choice. Peacemaking is a choice. You have your agency to choose contention or reconciliation. I urge you to choose to be a peacemaker, now and always.11
Brothers and sisters, we can literally change the world—one person and one interaction at a time. How? By modeling how to manage honest differences of opinion with mutual respect and dignified dialogue.
Differences of opinion are part of life. I work every day with dedicated servants of the Lord who do not always see an issue the same way. They know I want to hear their ideas and honest feelings about everything we discuss—especially sensitive issues.

My two noble counselors, President Dallin H. Oaks and President Henry B. Eyring, are exemplary in the way they express their feelings—especially when they may differ. They do so with pure love for each other. Neither suggests that he knows best and therefore must rigorously defend his position. Neither evidences the need to compete with the other. Because each is filled with charity, “the pure love of Christ,”12 our deliberations can be guided by the Spirit of the Lord. How I love and honor these two great men!
Charity is the antidote to contention. Charity is the spiritual gift that helps us to cast off the natural man, who is selfish, defensive, prideful, and jealous. Charity is the principal characteristic of a true follower of Jesus Christ.13 Charity defines a peacemaker.
When we humble ourselves before God and pray with all the energy of our hearts, God will grant us charity.14
Those blessed with this supernal gift are long-suffering and kind. They do not envy others and are not caught up in their own importance. They are not easily provoked and do not think evil of others.15
Brothers and sisters, the pure love of Christ is the answer to the contention that ails us today. Charity propels us “to bear one another’s burdens”16 rather than heap burdens upon each other. The pure love of Christ allows us “to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things”17—especially in tense situations. Charity allows us to demonstrate how men and women of Christ speak and act—especially when under fire.
Now, I am not talking about “peace at any price.”18 I am talking about treating others in ways that are consistent with keeping the covenant you make when you partake of the sacrament. You covenant to always remember the Savior. In situations that are highly charged and filled with contention, I invite you to remember Jesus Christ. Pray to have the courage and wisdom to say or do what He would. As we follow the Prince of Peace, we will become His peacemakers.
At this point you may be thinking that this message would really help someone you know. Perhaps you are hoping that it will help him or her to be nicer to you. I hope it will! But I also hope that you will look deeply into your heart to see if there are shards of pride or jealousy that prevent you from becoming a peacemaker.19
If you are serious about helping to gather Israel and about building relationships that will last throughout the eternities, now is the time to lay aside bitterness. Now is the time to cease insisting that it is your way or no way. Now is the time to stop doing things that make others walk on eggshells for fear of upsetting you. Now is the time to bury your weapons of war.20 If your verbal arsenal is filled with insults and accusations, now is the time to put them away.21 You will arise as a spiritually strong man or woman of Christ.
The temple can help us in our quest. There we are endowed with God’s power, giving us the ability to overcome Satan, the instigator of all contention.22 Cast him out of your relationships! Note that we also rebuke the adversary every time we heal a misunderstanding or refuse to take offense. Instead, we can show the tender mercy that is characteristic of true disciples of Jesus Christ. Peacemakers thwart the adversary.
Let us as a people become a true light on the hill—a light that “cannot be hid.”23 Let us show that there is a peaceful, respectful way to resolve complex issues and an enlightened way to work out disagreements. As you demonstrate the charity that true followers of Jesus Christ manifest, the Lord will magnify your efforts beyond your loftiest imagination.
The gospel net is the largest net in the world. God has invited all to come unto Him, “black and white, bond and free, male and female.”24 There is room for everyone. However, there is no room for prejudice, condemnation, or contention of any kind.
My dear brothers and sisters, the best is yet to come for those who spend their lives building up others. Today I invite you to examine your discipleship within the context of the way you treat others. I bless you to make any adjustments that may be needed so that your behavior is ennobling, respectful, and representative of a true follower of Jesus Christ.
I bless you to replace belligerence with beseeching, animosity with understanding, and contention with peace.
God lives! Jesus is the Christ. He stands at the head of this Church. We are His servants. He will help us to become His peacemakers. I so testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Matthew 5:9; see also 3 Nephi 12:9. The Savior’s promise to peacemakers is that they will “be called the children of God.”


Matthew 5:39; see also 3 Nephi 12:39.


Matthew 5:44; see also 3 Nephi 12:44.


See John 13:34.


John 13:35.


See Moroni 7:3–4.


See Mosiah 3:19.


3 Nephi 11:29. John the Revelator saw in vision that the devil would come to earth “having great wrath” (Revelation 12:12).


3 Nephi 13:24.


Articles of Faith 1:13.


See Moroni 7:3–4.


Moroni 7:47.


See Moroni 7:48.


See Moroni 7:48.


See Moroni 7:45; see also 1 Corinthians 13:4–5.


Mosiah 18:8.


Mosiah 18:9.


Being a peacemaker does not require us to agree with the ideas or beliefs of others.


See Helaman 3:33–36.


See Alma 24:19; 25:14.


See 1 Corinthians 13:11.


See Doctrine and Covenants 109:22, 26.


3 Nephi 12:14.


2 Nephi 26:33.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Teachings of Jesus Christ","year":"2023","month":"04"}



The Teachings of Jesus Christ

By President Dallin H. Oaks
First Counselor in the First Presidency

We are given the scriptures to direct our lives. My message today consists of a selection of the words of our Savior—what He said.


We believe in Christ. As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we worship Him and follow His teachings in the scriptures.
Before the Fall, our Heavenly Father spoke directly to Adam and Eve. Thereafter, the Father introduced His Only Begotten Son, Jesus Christ, as our Savior and Redeemer and gave us the command to “hear Him.”1 From this direction we conclude that the scriptural records of words spoken by “God” or the “Lord” are almost always the words of Jehovah, our risen Lord, Jesus Christ.2
We are given the scriptures to direct our lives. As the prophet Nephi taught us, we should “feast upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do.”3 Most of the scriptures reporting Jesus’s mortal ministries are descriptions of what He did. My message today consists of a selection of the words of our Savior—what He said. These are words recorded in the New Testament (including the inspired additions of Joseph Smith) and in the Book of Mormon. Most of these selections are in the sequence in which our Savior spoke them.
“Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.”4
“Blessed are … they [which] do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost.”5
“Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.”6
“Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery:
“But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart.”7
“Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy.
“But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you;
“That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.”8
“If ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you:
“But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.”9
“If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you.”10
“Wherefore, seek not the things of this world but seek ye first to build up the kingdom of God, and to establish his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.”11
“Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets.”12
“Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
“Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
“Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.”13
“Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven.”14
“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.
“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”15
“If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me.
“And now for a man to take up his cross, is to deny himself all ungodliness, and every worldly lust, and keep my commandments.”16
“Therefore, forsake the world, and save your souls; for what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?”17
“If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself.”18
“And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
“For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.”19
“Other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.”20
“Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:
“And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.”21
“[The great commandment in the law is this:] Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.
“This is the first and great commandment.
“And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
“On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.”22
“He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.”23
“Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.”24
“This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you.”25
“Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.”26
“Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:
“Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world.”27
After His ministry in the Holy Land, Jesus Christ appeared to the righteous on the American continent. These are some of the words He spoke there:
“Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God. I created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I was with the Father from the beginning. I am in the Father, and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name.”28
“I am the light and the life of the world. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.
“And ye shall offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood; yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away, for I will accept none of your sacrifices and your burnt offerings.
“And ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart and a contrite spirit. And whoso cometh unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, him will I baptize with fire and with the Holy Ghost. …
“Behold, I have come unto the world to bring redemption unto the world, to save the world from sin.”29
“And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and be baptized in my name, and become as a little child, or ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God.”30
“Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect.”31
“Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye be led away captive by him.”32
“Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name.”33
“Therefore, whatsoever ye shall do, ye shall do it in my name; therefore ye shall call the church in my name.”34
“Behold I have given unto you my gospel, and this is the gospel which I have given unto you—that I came into the world to do the will of my Father, because my Father sent me.
“And my Father sent me that I might be lifted up upon the cross; and after that I had been lifted up upon the cross, that I might draw all men unto me … to be judged of their works, whether they be good or whether they be evil.”35
“Now this is the commandment: Repent, all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me and be baptized in my name, that ye may be sanctified by the reception of the Holy Ghost, that ye may stand spotless before me at the last day.”36
We believe in Christ. I conclude with what He said about how we should know and follow His teachings:
“But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.”37
I affirm the truth of these teachings in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Joseph Smith Translation, Matthew 3:46 (in the Bible appendix); Matthew 17:5; Mark 9:7; 3 Nephi 11:7; Joseph Smith—History 1:17.


See “The Father and the Son: A Doctrinal Exposition by the First Presidency and the Twelve,” Improvement Era, Aug. 1916, 934, 939.


2 Nephi 32:3.


John 3:5.


3 Nephi 12:6; emphasis added.


Matthew 5:9.


Matthew 5:27–28.


Matthew 5:43–45.


Matthew 6:14–15.


John 15:19.


Joseph Smith Translation, Matthew 6:38 (in the Bible appendix).


Matthew 7:12.


Matthew 7:15–17.


Matthew 7:21.


Matthew 11:28–30.


Joseph Smith Translation, Matthew 16:25–26 (in the Bible appendix).


Joseph Smith Translation, Matthew 16:29 (in the Bible appendix).


John 7:17.


Luke 11:9–10.


John 10:16.


John 11:25–26.


Matthew 22:37–40.


John 14:21.


John 14:27.


John 15:12.


Luke 24:39.


Matthew 28:19–20.


3 Nephi 9:15.


3 Nephi 9:18–21.


3 Nephi 11:38.


3 Nephi 12:48; emphasis added.


3 Nephi 18:15; emphasis added.


3 Nephi 18:19.


3 Nephi 27:7.


3 Nephi 27:13–14.


3 Nephi 27:20.


John 14:26.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Remember What Matters Most","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Remember What Matters Most

By President M. Russell Ballard
Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

What matters most is our relationships with Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son, our families, and our neighbors, and allowing the Spirit to guide us.


As we remember this weekend the Savior’s triumphal entry into Jerusalem shortly before His atoning sacrifice, I recall His words of hope and comfort: “I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live.”1
I love Him. I believe Him. I testify that He is the Resurrection and the Life.
This testimony has comforted and strengthened me during the past four and a half years since my wife, Barbara, passed away. I miss her.
Often, I have been reflecting on our eternal marriage and our life together.
I previously have shared how I first met Barbara and how that experience taught me to use the skill of “following up” that I had learned on my mission. I had to follow up quickly with her after we first met because she was beautiful, popular, and had a very busy social calendar. I was smitten early because she was approachable and friendly. I admired her goodness. I felt that she and I belonged together. It seemed that simple in my mind.
Barbara and I dated, and our relationship began to grow, but she was uncertain that marriage to me was right for her.
It wasn’t enough for me to know; Barbara needed to know for herself. I knew if we spent time fasting and praying about the matter, Barbara could receive a confirmation from heaven.
We spent a weekend without dating so we could fast and pray individually to know for ourselves. Fortunately for me, she received the same confirmation that I did. The rest, as they say, is history.
When Barbara passed away, our children put on her headstone several lessons that Barbara wanted them to remember. One of those lessons is “what matters most is what lasts longest.”
Today I will share from my heart a few feelings and thoughts on what matters most.
First, a relationship with our Heavenly Father and His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, is most important. This relationship matters most now and in eternity.
Second, family relationships are among those things that matter most.
Throughout my ministry, I have visited many individuals and families impacted by devastating natural disasters. Many were displaced, hungry, and frightened. They needed medical assistance, food, and shelter.
They also needed their families.
I recognize some may not have the blessings of a close family, so I include extended family, friends, and even ward families as “family.” These relationships are essential for emotional and physical health.
These relationships can also offer love, joy, happiness, and a sense of belonging.
Nurturing these important relationships is a choice. A choice to be part of a family requires commitment, love, patience, communication, and forgiveness.2 There may be times when we disagree with another person, but we can do so without being disagreeable. In courtship and marriage, we don’t fall in love or fall out of love as though we are objects being moved on a chessboard. We choose to love and sustain one another. We do the same in other family relationships and with friends who are like family to us.
The family proclamation states that “the divine plan of happiness enables family relationships to be perpetuated beyond the grave. Sacred ordinances and covenants available in holy temples make it possible for individuals to return to the presence of God and for families to be united eternally.”3
Another thing that matters most is following the promptings of the Spirit in our most important relationships and in our efforts to love our neighbors as ourselves, including in our private and public ministries. I learned this lesson early in my life while serving as a bishop.
Late one cold, snowy winter evening, I was leaving my bishop’s office when I had a strong impression to visit an elderly widow in the ward. I glanced at my watch—it was 10:00 p.m. I reasoned that it was too late to make such a visit. And besides, it was snowing. I decided to visit this dear sister first thing in the morning rather than disturbing her at such a late hour. I drove home and went to bed but tossed and turned throughout the night because the Spirit was stirring me.
Early the next morning, I drove straight to the widow’s home. Her daughter answered the door and tearfully said, “Oh, Bishop, thank you for coming. Mother passed away two hours ago”—I was devastated. I will never forget the feelings of my heart. I wept. Who more than this dear widow deserved to have her bishop hold her hand, comfort her, and perhaps give her a final blessing? I missed that opportunity because I reasoned away this strong prompting from the Spirit.4
Brothers and sisters, young men and young women, and Primary children, I testify that following the promptings of the Spirit is one of the things that matter most in all our relationships.
Finally, on this Palm Sunday weekend, I testify that being converted to the Lord, bearing testimony of Him, and serving Him are also among the things that matter most.
Faith in Jesus Christ is the foundation of our testimonies. A testimony is a witness or confirmation of eternal truth impressed upon individual hearts and souls through the Holy Ghost. A testimony of Jesus Christ, born of and strengthened by the Spirit, changes lives—it changes the way we think and how we live. A testimony turns us toward our Heavenly Father and His divine Son.
Alma taught:
“Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that these things whereof I have spoken are true. And how do ye suppose that I know of their surety?
“Behold, I say unto you they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God. Behold, I have fasted and prayed many days that I might know these things of myself. And now I do know of myself that they are true; for the Lord God hath made them manifest unto me by his Holy Spirit.”5
Having a testimony alone is not enough. As our conversion to Jesus Christ grows, we naturally want to testify of Him—His goodness, love, and kindness.
Often in our testimony meetings on fast Sundays, we hear the phrases “I am thankful” and “I love” more than we hear the phrases “I know” and “I believe.”
I invite you to bear your testimony of Jesus Christ more often. Bear testimony of what you know and believe and what you feel, not just of what you are thankful for. Testify of your own experiences of coming to know and love the Savior, of living His teachings, and of His redemptive and enabling power in your life. As you bear testimony of what you know, believe, and feel, the Holy Ghost will confirm the truth to those who earnestly listen to your testimony. They will do so because they have watched you become a peaceful follower of Jesus Christ. They will see what it means to be His disciple. They will also feel something they may not have felt before. A pure testimony comes from a changed heart and can be carried by the power of the Holy Ghost into the hearts of others who are open to receive it.
Those who feel something as a result of your testimony may then ask the Lord in prayer to confirm the truth of your testimony. Then they can know for themselves.
Brothers and sisters, I testify and witness to you that I know that Jesus Christ is the Savior and Redeemer of the world. He lives. He is the resurrected Son of God, and this is His Church, led by His prophet and apostles. I pray that someday when I pass to the next world, I may do so with my testimony burning brightly.
In my ministry, I have learned what matters most is our relationships with Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son, our families, and our neighbors, and allowing the Spirit of the Lord to guide us in those relationships so we can testify of the things that matter most and last longest. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


John 11:25.


See the articles “Family,” “Unity,” and “Love” in Gospel Topics in the Gospel Library (at ChurchofJesusChrist.org or on the mobile app) to read scriptures and talks from prophets, apostles, and other Church leaders on this topic.


“The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


An account of this experience is in Susan Easton Black and Joseph Walker, Anxiously Engaged: A Biography of M. Russell Ballard (2021), 90–91.


Alma 5:45–46.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Hosanna to the Most High God","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Hosanna to the Most High God

By Elder Ronald A. Rasband
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Jesus Christ’s triumphant entry into Jerusalem and the events of the week that followed exemplify doctrine we can apply in our lives today.


Today, as has been said, we join with Christians around the world to honor Jesus Christ on this Palm Sunday. Nearly 2,000 years ago, Palm Sunday marked the beginning of the last week of the mortal ministry of Jesus Christ. It was the most important week in human history.
What began with the heralding of Jesus as the promised Messiah in His triumphant entry into Jerusalem closed with His Crucifixion and Resurrection.1 By divine design, His atoning sacrifice concluded His mortal ministry, making it possible for us to live with our Heavenly Father for eternity.
Scriptures tell us that the week began with throngs standing at the gates of the city to see “Jesus the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee.”2 They “took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried: Hosanna: Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord.”3
That biblical account of so long ago reminds me of being on a Church assignment in Takoradi, Ghana. Remarkably, I was there on Palm Sunday.

I was to divide the Takoradi Ghana Stake to create the Mpintsin Ghana Stake. Today, there are over 100,000 members of the Church in Ghana.4 (We welcome the Ga Mantse, His Majesty King Nii Tackie Teiko Tsuru II of Accra, Ghana, who is with us today.) Meeting with these Saints, I felt their profound love and devotion to the Lord. I expressed my great love for them and that the President of the Church loved them. I referred to the Savior’s words recorded by John: “That ye love one another, as I have loved you.”5 They deemed it the “I love you conference.”6

As I looked up and down the rows of those dear brothers and sisters and their families in the chapel, I could see in their faces the glow of testimony and faith in Jesus Christ. I felt their desire to be counted as part of His far-reaching Church. And when the choir sang, they sang like angels.


Like on Palm Sunday of old, these were disciples of Jesus Christ gathered to pay tribute to Him as did those at the gates of Jerusalem who, with palms in their hands, exclaimed, “Hosanna … : Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.”7

Even the parishioners in a church nearby were honoring Palm Sunday. As I was speaking from the pulpit, I noticed out the window they were joyfully walking down the street waving palms in their hands, much like those in this photo. It was a sight I will never forget—all of us that day worshipping the King of kings.
President Russell M. Nelson has admonished us to make Palm Sunday “truly holy by remembering, not just the palms that were waved to honor the entrance of Jesus into Jerusalem, but by remembering the palms of His hands.” Then President Nelson referred to Isaiah, who spoke of the Savior’s promising, “I will never forget you,” with these words: “Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands.”8
The Lord knows firsthand that mortality is hard. His wounds remind us that He “descended below … all”9 that He might succor us when we suffer and be our example to “hold on thy way,”10 His way, that “God shall be with [us] forever and ever.”11
Palm Sunday was not just an event, another page in history with a date, time, and place. Jesus Christ’s triumphant entry into Jerusalem and the events of the week that followed exemplify doctrine we can apply in our lives today.
Let us look at some of the eternal doctrine that weaves through His ministry concluding in Jerusalem.
First, prophecy. For example, Old Testament prophet Zechariah prophesied of Jesus Christ’s triumphal entry into Jerusalem, even describing He would ride on a donkey.12 Jesus foretold His Resurrection as He prepared to enter the city, saying:
“Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be betrayed unto the chief priests and unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death,
“And shall deliver him to the Gentiles to mock, and to scourge, and to crucify him: and the third day he shall rise again.”13
Second, the companionship of the Holy Ghost. Joseph Smith taught, “No man can know that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.”14 The Savior promised His disciples15 at the Last Supper16 in the upper room,17 “I will not leave you comfortless.”18 They would not be alone to carry the truths of the gospel forward but would have the consummate gift of the Holy Ghost to guide them. “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you,” He promised; “not as the world giveth, give I unto you.”19 With the gift of the Holy Ghost, we have that same assurance—that we “may always have his Spirit to be with [us]”20 and “by the power of the Holy Ghost [we] may know the truth of all things.”21
Third, discipleship. True discipleship is unfailing commitment, obedience to eternal laws, and love of God, first and foremost. Nothing wavering. The multitude who paid tribute with palms hailed Him as the Messiah. That was exactly who He was. They were drawn to Him, His miracles, and His teachings. But the adulation for many did not last. Some who earlier had shouted, “Hosanna,”22 soon turned and cried, “Crucify him.”23
Fourth, the Atonement of Jesus Christ.24 In His final days, following Palm Sunday, He carried out His remarkable Atonement, from the agony of Gethsemane to the mockery of His trial, His torture on the cross, and His burial in a borrowed tomb. But it did not stop there. With the majesty of His calling as the Redeemer of all of Heavenly Father’s children, three days later He stepped forth from that tomb, resurrected,25 as He had prophesied.
Are we continually grateful for the incomparable Atonement of Jesus Christ? Do we feel its purifying power, right now? That is why Jesus Christ, the Author and Finisher of our salvation, went to Jerusalem, to save us all. Do these words in Alma strike a chord: “If ye have experienced a change of heart, and if ye have felt to sing the song of redeeming love, I would ask, can ye feel so now?”26 I can truly say, the choir in Takoradi that Palm Sunday sang “the song of redeeming love.”
That last fateful week of His mortal ministry, Jesus Christ gave the parable of the ten virgins.27 He was teaching of His return to those prepared to receive Him, not with palms in their hands but with the light of the gospel within them. He used the image of lamps lit and burning, with extra oil to fuel the flame, as a description of a willingness to live His ways, embrace His truths, and share His light.
You know the story. The ten virgins represent members of the Church, and the bridegroom represents Jesus Christ.
The ten virgins took their lamps and “went forth to meet the bridegroom.”28 Five were wise, prepared with oil in their lamps and some to spare, and five were foolish, lamps dark with no oil in reserve. When the call came, “Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him,”29 the five who were “wise and [had] received the truth, and [had] taken the Holy Spirit for their guide”30 were ready for “their king and their lawgiver,”31 that “his glory [would] be upon them.”32 The other five were frantically trying to find oil. But it was too late. The procession went forward without them. When they knocked and pleaded for entrance, the Lord responded, “I know you not.”33
How would we feel if He said to us, “I know you not!”
We, like the ten virgins, have lamps; but do we have oil? I fear there are some who are just getting by on a thin skiff of oil, too busy with worldly pressures to properly prepare. Oil comes from believing and acting on prophecy and the words of living prophets, President Nelson in particular, his counselors, and the Twelve Apostles. Oil fills our souls when we hear and feel the Holy Ghost and act on that divine guidance. Oil pours into our hearts when our choices show we love the Lord and we love what He loves. Oil comes from repenting and seeking the healing of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
If some of you are looking to fill what some call “a bucket list,” this is it: fill your bucket with oil in the form of the living water of Jesus Christ,34 which is a representation of His life and teachings. In contrast, checking off a far-off place or a spectacular event will never leave your soul feeling whole or satisfied; living the doctrine taught by Jesus Christ will. I mentioned examples earlier: embrace prophecy and prophetic teachings, act on promptings of the Holy Ghost, become a true disciple, and seek the healing power of our Lord’s Atonement. That bucket list will take you somewhere you want to go—back to your Father in Heaven.
That Palm Sunday in Takoradi was a very special experience for me because I shared it with a faithful congregation of brothers and sisters. So it has been on continents and islands all around the world. My heart and soul, like yours, longs to shout, “Hosanna to the Most High God.”35
Though we do not stand at the gates of Jerusalem today with palms in our hands, the time will come when, as prophesied in Revelation, “a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, [will stand] before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands.”36
I leave with you my blessing as an Apostle of Jesus Christ that you will diligently strive to live righteously and be among those who, with palms in their hands, will herald the Son of God, the great Redeemer of us all. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


All four of the Gospels—Matthew 21–28; Mark 11–16; Luke 19–24; and John 12–21—describe the last days of Jesus Christ’s ministry in mortality, which was divinely designed to make the blessings of salvation and exaltation available to all of God’s children. At times the authors differ in what they include but not in the Savior’s teachings and actions.


See Matthew 21:10–11.


John 12:13.


Per Membership and Statistical Records, there are 102,592 members in Ghana.


John 15:12.


Every time I spoke with members, they would say to me, “Elder Rasband, our dear Apostle, I love you.” These people are so filled with the Spirit and the love of God that they share that love easily.


Matthew 21:9.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Peace and Hope of Easter” (video), Apr. 2021, ChurchofJesusChrist.org/media; Isaiah 49:16.


Doctrine and Covenants 122:8. In December 1838 the Prophet Joseph and a handful of other Church leaders were unjustly imprisoned in Liberty Jail. The conditions were dreadful. After months in wretched circumstances, he wrote to the members in March of 1839, including prayers where he had petitioned the Lord to have compassion on his situation and the “suffering saints.” He also shared the Lord’s response to those prayers as recorded in Doctrine and Covenants 121–23.


Doctrine and Covenants 122:9. The Lord’s encouragement to Joseph Smith in Liberty Jail brought him comfort and spiritual understanding that adversity and trials can strengthen us, teach patience, and foster self-mastery. The Lord called for him to “hold on thy way,” which was the way of the Lord, enduring unjust treatment as had “the Son of [God, who] hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he?” (Doctrine and Covenants 122:8).


Doctrine and Covenants 122:9. The pledge that God “shall be with you” is a sure promise for those who hold fast to their faith and trust in the Lord.


See Zechariah 9:9.


Matthew 20:18–19. James E. Talmage writes in Jesus the Christ: “It is … an astounding fact that the Twelve failed to comprehend His meaning. … To them there was some dreadful incongruity, some dire inconsistency or inexplicable contradiction in the sayings of their beloved Master. They knew Him to be the Christ, the Son of the living God; and how could such a One be brought into subjection and be slain?” ([1916], 502–3).


Joseph Smith made this declaration to the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, April 28, 1842, as quoted in “History of Joseph Smith,” Deseret News, Sept. 19, 1855, 218. Referring to the twelfth chapter of 1 Corinthians, he clarified the third verse, “No man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost,” revising it to say, “No man can know that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.” (See The First Fifty Years of Relief Society: Key Documents in Latter-day Saint Women’s History [2016], 2.2, churchhistorianspress.org.)


Jesus shared the Last Supper with His disciples (see Mark 14:12–18). The Twelve included Peter, Andrew, James, John, Matthew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, James (son of Alphaeus), Judas Iscariot, Judas (brother of James), and Simon (see Luke 6:13–16).


Jesus instituted the sacrament with His disciples at the Last Supper (see Matthew 26:26–29; Mark 14:22–25; Luke 22:19–20).


The specific day/night in which Jesus instituted the sacrament in the “upper room” is actually disputed because of seeming discrepancies between Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Matthew, Mark, and Luke suggest that the Last Supper took place on “the first day of the feast of unleavened bread,” or the Passover meal (see Matthew 26:17; Mark 14:12; Luke 22:1, 7). John, however, suggests that Jesus was arrested before the Passover meal (see John 18:28), meaning that the Last Supper would have taken place one day earlier than the Passover meal. The Church’s curriculum materials and Latter-day Saint scholarship seem to agree that Jesus held the Last Supper with His disciples in the upper room on the evening before He was crucified. Christians who celebrate Holy Week recognize Thursday as the day of the Last Supper, Friday as the day of the Crucifixion, and Sunday as the day of Resurrection—according to the Gregorian calendar.


John 14:18.


John 14:27.


Doctrine and Covenants 20:77.


Moroni 10:5.


The Bible Dictionary explains, hosanna means “save now.” The word is taken from Psalm 118:25. “The chanting of this psalm was connected at the Feast of the Tabernacles with the waving of palm branches; hence the use of the word by the multitudes at our Lord’s triumphal entry into Jerusalem” (Bible Dictionary, “Hosanna”). See Matthew 21:9, 15; Mark 11:9–10; John 12:13.


Mark 15:14; Luke 23:21.


The centerpiece of our Heavenly Father’s plan of salvation was an infinite atonement that would ensure immortality for all His children and exaltation for those worthy to receive that blessing. When the Father said, “Whom shall I send?” Jesus Christ stepped forward: “Here am I, send me” (Abraham 3:27). President Russell M. Nelson has taught: “[Jesus Christ’s] mission was the Atonement. That mission was uniquely His. Born of a mortal mother and an immortal Father, He was the only one who could voluntarily lay down His life and take it up again (see John 10:14–18). The glorious consequences of His Atonement were infinite and eternal. He took the sting out of death and made temporary the grief of the grave (see 1 Corinthians 15:54–55). His responsibility for the Atonement was known even before the Creation and the Fall. Not only was it to provide for the resurrection and immortality of all humankind, but it was also to enable us to be forgiven of our sins—upon conditions established by Him. Thus His Atonement opened the way by which we could be united with Him and with our families eternally” (“The Mission and Ministry of Jesus Christ,” Ensign, Apr. 2013, 34; Liahona, Apr. 2013, 20).


Resurrection consists of reuniting the body and the spirit in an immortal state, the body and spirit being inseparable and no longer bound to maladies of mortality or death (see Alma 11:45; 40:23).


Alma 5:26; see also Alma 5:14.


The parable of the ten virgins is found in Matthew 25:1–12; Doctrine and Covenants 45:56–59. The surrounding chapters of Matthew 25 suggest that Jesus taught this parable during His last week, after entering Jerusalem in Matthew 21 and just before the Last Supper and His arrest in Matthew 26. In addition to the parable of the ten virgins given that last week, Jesus gave the parable of the fig tree (see Matthew 21:17–21; 24:32–33), parable of the two sons (see Matthew 21:28–32), and parable of the wicked husbandman (see Matthew 21:33–46).


Matthew 25:1.


Matthew 25:6.


Doctrine and Covenants 45:57.


Doctrine and Covenants 45:59.


Doctrine and Covenants 45:59.


Matthew 25:12. In the Sermon on the Mount, the Lord refers to those who presume to have “done many wonderful works,” saying, as suggested in the account of the five foolish virgins, “I know you not” (see Matthew 7:22–23).


Just as water is critical to mortal life, Jesus Christ and His teachings (living water) are critical for eternal life (see Guide to the Scriptures, “Living Water,” scriptures.ChurchofJesusChrist.org; see also Isaiah 12:3; Jeremiah 2:13; John 4:6–15; 7:37; 1 Nephi 11:25; Doctrine and Covenants 10:66; 63:23).


3 Nephi 4:32.


Revelation 7:9.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Imperfect Harvest","year":"2023","month":"04"}



The Imperfect Harvest

By Elder Vern P. Stanfill
Of the Seventy

The Savior stands ready to accept our humble offerings and perfect them through His grace. With Christ, there is no imperfect harvest.


As a young boy, I learned to love the dramatic changes in the seasons of the year in southwest Montana, where I grew up. My favorite season was fall—the time of the harvest. Our family hoped and prayed that our months of hard work would be rewarded with a bountiful harvest. My parents worried over the weather, the health of animals and crops, and many other things over which they had little control.
As I grew, I became even more aware of the urgency involved. Our livelihood depended upon the harvest. My father taught me about the equipment we used to harvest grain. I watched as he would move the machinery into the field, cut a small swath of grain, and then check behind the combine to make sure that as much grain as possible landed in the holding tank and was not thrown out with the chaff. He repeated this exercise several times, adjusting the machine each time. I ran alongside and pawed through the chaff with him and pretended that I knew what I was doing.
After he was satisfied with the adjustments to the machine, I found some kernels of grain in the chaff on the ground and presented them to him with a critical look. I will not forget what my father said to me: “It is good enough and the best that this machine can do.” Not really satisfied with his explanation, I pondered the imperfections of this harvest.
A short time later, when the weather turned cold in the evenings, I watched thousands of migrating swans, geese, and ducks descend onto the fields to nourish themselves on their long journey south. They ate the leftover grain from our imperfect harvest. God had perfected it. And not a kernel was lost.
It is often a temptation in our world and even within the culture of the Church to obsess about perfection. Social media, unrealistic expectations, and often our own self-criticism create feelings of inadequacy—that we are not good enough and never will be. Some even misunderstand the invitation of the Savior to “be ye therefore perfect.”1
Remember that perfectionism is not the same as being perfected in Christ.2 Perfectionism requires an impossible, self-inflicted standard that compares us to others. This causes guilt and anxiety and can make us want to withdraw and isolate ourselves.
Becoming perfected in Christ is another matter. It is the process—lovingly guided by the Holy Ghost—of becoming more like the Savior. The standards are set by a kind and all-knowing Heavenly Father and clearly defined in the covenants we are invited to embrace. It relieves us of the burdens of guilt and inadequacy, always emphasizing who we are in the sight of God. While this process lifts us and pushes us to become better, we are measured by our personal devotion to God that we manifest in our efforts to follow Him in faith. As we accept the Savior’s invitation to come unto Him, we soon realize that our best is good enough and that the grace of a loving Savior will make up the difference in ways we cannot imagine.
We can see this principle in effect when the Savior fed the five thousand.
“When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat? …
“Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little.
“One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, saith unto him,
“There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so many?”3
Do you ever wonder how the Savior must have felt about this young boy, who with the faith of a child offered what he must have known to be woefully inadequate in the face of the task at hand?
“And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would.
“When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.”4
The Savior perfected the humble offering.
Shortly after this experience, Jesus sent His disciples ahead on a boat. They soon found themselves on a stormy sea in the middle of the night. They became frightened when they saw a ghostly figure walking toward them on the water.
“But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.
“And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water.
“And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus.
“But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me.
“And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?”5
Brothers and sisters, that may not have been the end of the conversation. I believe that as Peter and the Savior walked back to the ship arm in arm, Peter soaking wet and perhaps feeling very foolish, the Savior may have said something like this: “Oh, Peter, fear not and worry not. If you could see yourself as I see you, your doubt would fade and your faith increase. I love you, dear Peter; you got out of the boat. Your offering is acceptable, and even though you faltered, I will always be there to lift you from the depths, and your offering will be made perfect.”
Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf taught:
“I believe the Savior Jesus Christ would want you to see, feel, and know that He is your strength. That with His help, there are no limits to what you can accomplish. That your potential is limitless. He would want you to see yourself the way He sees you. And that is very different from the way the world sees you. …
“He gives power to the weary; and to those who feel powerless, He increases strength.”6
We must remember that whatever our best-but-imperfect offering is, the Savior can make it perfect. No matter how insignificant our efforts may seem, we must never underestimate the Savior’s power. A simple word of kindness, a brief but sincere ministering visit, or a Primary lesson lovingly taught can, with the Savior’s help, provide comfort, soften hearts, and change eternal lives. Our clumsy efforts can lead to miracles, and in the process, we can participate in a perfect harvest.
Often we are placed in situations that will cause us to stretch. We may not feel up to the task. We may look at those we serve with and feel that we will never measure up. Brothers and sisters, if you feel this way, look at the extraordinary men and women seated behind me with whom I serve.
I feel your pain.
I have learned, however, that just as perfectionism is not the same as being perfected in Christ, self-comparison is not the same as emulation. When we compare ourselves to others, there can be only two results. Either we will see ourselves as better than others and become judgmental and critical of them, or we will see ourselves as less than others and become anxious, self-critical, and discouraged. Comparing ourselves to others is rarely productive, not uplifting, and sometimes downright depressing. In fact, these comparisons can be spiritually destructive, preventing us from receiving the spiritual help we need. On the other hand, emulating those we respect who demonstrate Christlike attributes can be instructive and uplifting and can help us become better disciples of Jesus Christ.
The Savior gave us a model to follow as He emulated the Father. He instructed His disciple Philip: “Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?”7
And then He taught, “Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also.”8
Regardless of how insignificant our efforts may seem, if we are sincere, the Savior will use us to accomplish His work. If we simply do the best we can and trust Him to make up the difference, we can become part of the miracles that surround us.
Elder Dale G. Renlund said, “You don’t have to be perfect, but we need you, because everybody who’s willing can do something.”9
And President Russell M. Nelson teaches us, “The Lord loves effort.”10
The Savior stands ready to accept our humble offerings and perfect them through His grace. With Christ, there is no imperfect harvest. We must have the courage to believe that His grace is for us—that He will help us, rescue us from the depths when we falter, and perfect our less-than-perfect efforts.
In the parable of the sower, the Savior describes the seeds that are planted in good ground. Some produce a hundredfold, some sixty, and others thirty. All are part of His perfect harvest.11
The prophet Moroni invited all, “Yea, come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, … and if ye shall deny yourselves of all ungodliness, and love God with all your might, mind and strength, then is his grace sufficient for you, that by his grace ye may be perfect in Christ.”12
Brothers and sisters, I testify of Christ, who has the power to perfect even our most humble offering. Let us do our best, bring what we can, and, with faith, lay our imperfect offering at His feet. In the name of Him who is Master of the perfect harvest, even Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Matthew 5:48.


See Moroni 10:32.


John 6:5, 7–9.


John 6:11–12.


Matthew 14:27–31.


Dieter F. Uchtdorf, “Jesus Christ Is the Strength of Youth,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 9–10.


John 14:9.


John 14:12.


Dale G. Renlund, in Aubrey Eyre, “Elder Renlund Visits Caribbean Saints Preparing to Withstand ‘Seismic Hits of Life,’” Church News, Mar. 4, 2020, ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


Russell M. Nelson, in Joy D. Jones, “An Especially Noble Calling,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2020, 16.


See Matthew 13:1–23.


Moroni 10:32.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"After the Fourth Day","year":"2023","month":"04"}



After the Fourth Day

By Elder W. Mark Bassett
Of the Seventy

As we move forward with faith in Jesus Christ, the fourth day will always come. He will always come to our aid.


As we have been reminded this morning, today is Palm Sunday, marking the Savior’s triumphal entry into Jerusalem and the beginning of that holy week preceding His great Atonement, which would include His suffering, Crucifixion, and Resurrection.
Not long before His prophesied entry into the city, Jesus Christ was fully engaged in His ministry when He received word from His dear friends Mary and Martha that their brother Lazarus was sick.1
Although Lazarus’s illness was serious, the Lord “abode two days still in the same place where he was. Then after that saith he to his disciples, Let us go into Judea again.”2 Before beginning the journey to His friends’ home in Bethany, “said Jesus unto [His disciples] plainly, Lazarus is dead.”3
When Jesus came into Bethany and met first Martha and then Mary, perhaps out of frustration for His late arrival, they each greeted Him saying, “Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.”4 Martha further exclaimed, “By this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days.”5
These four days were significant to Mary and Martha. According to some rabbinic schools of thought, it was believed that the spirit of someone who died would remain with the body for three days, offering hope that life was still possible. However, by the fourth day that hope was lost, perhaps because the body would begin to decay and “stinketh.”6
Mary and Martha were in a state of despair. “When Jesus therefore saw [Mary] weeping, … he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled,
“And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see.”7
It is at this moment that we see one of the great miracles during the Savior’s mortal ministry. First the Lord said, “Take ye away the stone.”8 Then, after thanking His Father, “he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.
“And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go.”9
Like Mary and Martha, we have the opportunity to experience all of mortality, even sorrow10 and weakness.11 Each of us will experience the heartache that accompanies the loss of someone we love. Our mortal journey might include personal illness or the debilitating illness of a loved one; depression, anxiety, or other mental health challenges; financial hardship; betrayal; sin. And sometimes these are accompanied by feelings of hopelessness. I am no different. Like you, I have experienced a myriad of challenges that are expected in this life. I am drawn to this account about the Savior and what it teaches me about our relationship with Him.
During our greatest worries, we, like Mary and Martha, seek the Savior or ask the Father for His divine intervention. The story of Lazarus teaches us principles that can be applied to our own lives as we face our individual challenges.
When the Savior arrived in Bethany, all had lost hope that Lazarus could be saved—it had been four days, and he was gone. Sometimes during our own challenges, we might feel like Christ is too late, and our hope and faith might even feel challenged. My witness and testimony are that as we move forward with faith in Jesus Christ, the fourth day will always come. He will always come to our aid or to raise our hopes back to life. He has promised:
“Let not your heart be troubled.”12
“I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.”13
Sometimes it may seem like He doesn’t come to us until the figurative fourth day, after all hope seems lost. But why so late? President Thomas S. Monson taught, “Our Heavenly Father, who gives us so much to delight in, also knows that we learn and grow and become stronger as we face and survive the trials through which we must pass.”14
Even the Prophet Joseph Smith faced an enormous fourth-day experience. Remember his pleading? “O God, where art thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth thy hiding place?”15 As we trust in Him, we can expect a like answer: “My son [or daughter], peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment.”16
Another message we can learn from the story of Lazarus is what our own role might be in the divine intervention we seek. When Jesus approached the tomb, He first said to those who were there, “Take ye away the stone.”17 With the power that the Savior had, could not He have miraculously moved the stone without effort? This would have been impressive to see and an unforgettable experience, yet He said to the others, “Take ye away the stone.”
Second, the Lord “cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.”18 Wouldn’t it have been more impressive if the Lord had Himself miraculously placed Lazarus at the opening so he would be immediately visible to the crowd when the stone was removed?
Third, when Lazarus did come forth, he was “bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go.”19 I’m sure the Lord was capable of having Lazarus standing at the opening, already clean and approachable, with his graveclothes nicely folded.
What is the point of highlighting these aspects? Each of these three things had something in common—none required the use of Christ’s divine power. That which His disciples could do, He instructed them to do. The disciples were certainly capable of moving the stone themselves; Lazarus, after being raised, had the capacity to stand and present himself at the opening of the cave; and those who loved Lazarus could absolutely help him remove the graveclothes.
However, it was only the Christ who had the power and authority to raise Lazarus from the dead. My impression is that the Savior expects us to do all we can do, and He will do what only He can do.20
We know that “faith [in the Lord Jesus Christ] is a principle of action”21 and “miracles do not produce faith, but strong faith is developed by obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ. In other words, faith comes by righteousness.”22 As we strive to act righteously by making and keeping sacred covenants and applying the doctrine of Christ in our lives, our faith will not only be sufficient to carry us to the fourth day, but with the Lord’s help we will also be capable of moving stones that are in our path, arising from despair, and loosening ourselves of all that binds us. While the Lord expects us to “do all things that lie in our power,”23 remember that He will provide needed help in all these things as we trust in Him.
How can we move stones and build upon His rock?24 We can abide by the counsel of prophets.
For example, last October, President Russell M. Nelson pleaded with us to take charge of our own testimonies of the Savior and His gospel, to work for them and nurture them, to feed them truth, and to avoid polluting them with false philosophies of unbelievers. He promised each of us, “As you make the continual strengthening of your testimony of Jesus Christ your highest priority, watch for miracles to happen in your life.”25
We can do this!
How can we figuratively arise and come forth? We can joyfully repent and choose to obey commandments. The Lord said, “He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.”26 We can strive to repent daily and joyfully move forward with a willing heart full of love for the Lord.
We can do this!
How can we, with the Lord’s help, loose ourselves of all that binds us? We can intentionally bind ourselves first and foremost to our Heavenly Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, through covenants. Elder D. Todd Christofferson taught: “What is the source of [our] moral and spiritual power, and how do we obtain it? The source is God. Our access to that power is through our covenants with Him. … In these divine agreements, God binds Himself to sustain, sanctify, and exalt us in return for our commitment to serve Him and keep His commandments.”27 We can make and keep sacred covenants.
We can do this!
“Take ye away the stone.” “Come forth.” “Loose him, and let him go.”
Counsels, commandments, and covenants. We can do this!
Elder Jeffrey R. Holland promised, “Some blessings come soon, some come late, and some don’t come until heaven; but for those who embrace the gospel of Jesus Christ, they come.”28
And finally, “Wherefore, be of good cheer, and do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you.”29
This is my witness and testimony, in the sacred name of Him who will always come, even Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See John 11:3.


John 11:6–7.


John 11:14.


John 11:21, 32.


John 11:39.


“The soul, according to Jewish belief, lingered in the vicinity of the body three days after death. According to Jewish conviction, consequently, a resuscitation of one who had died was impossible on the fourth day, since the soul would not enter again into the body that had altered its position. It was all the more impressive for the witnesses of the miracle that Jesus raised Lazarus on the fourth day. The fourth day thus has a special meaning here and is taken over deliberately by the narrator for use in connection with the greatest of all possible resurrection miracles” (Ernst Haenchen, John 2: A Commentary on the Gospel of John, Chapters 7–21, ed. Robert W. Funk and Ulrich Busse, trans. Robert W. Funk [1984], 60–61).


John 11:33–34.


John 11:39.


John 11:43–44.


See Moses 4:22–25.


See Ether 12:27.


John 14:1.


John 14:18.


Thomas S. Monson, “I Will Not Fail Thee, nor Forsake Thee,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2013, 87. President Monson further explained: “We know that there are times when we will experience heartbreaking sorrow, when we will grieve, and when we may be tested to our limits. However, such difficulties allow us to change for the better, to rebuild our lives in the way our Heavenly Father teaches us, and to become something different from what we were—better than we were, more understanding than we were, more empathetic than we were, with stronger testimonies than we had before” (“I Will Not Fail Thee, Nor Forsake Thee,” 87). See also Doctrine and Covenants 84:119: “For I, the Lord, have put forth my hand to exert the powers of heaven; ye cannot see it now, yet a little while and ye shall see it, and know that I am, and that I will come.”
See also Mosiah 23:21–24:
“Nevertheless the Lord seeth fit to chasten his people; yea, he trieth their patience and their faith.
“Nevertheless—whosoever putteth his trust in him the same shall be lifted up at the last day. Yea, and thus it was with this people.
“For behold, I will show unto you that they were brought into bondage, and none could deliver them but the Lord their God, yea, even the God of Abraham and Isaac and of Jacob.
“And it came to pass that he did deliver them, and he did show forth his mighty power unto them, and great were their rejoicings.”


Doctrine and Covenants 121:1.


Doctrine and Covenants 121:7.


John 11:39.


John 11:43.


John 11:44.


President Russell M. Nelson remarked: “Often, my counselors and I have watched through tear-brimmed eyes as He has interceded in extremely challenging circumstances after we had done our best and could do no more. We do indeed stand all amazed” (“Welcome Message,” Liahona, May 2021, 6).


Bible Dictionary, “Faith.”


Guide to the Scriptures, “Faith,” scriptures.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


Doctrine and Covenants 123:17.


See 3 Nephi 11:32–39.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 97.


John 14:21.


D. Todd Christofferson, “The Power of Covenants,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2009, 20.


Jeffrey R. Holland, “An High Priest of Good Things to Come,” Ensign, Nov. 1999, 38; Liahona, Jan. 2000, 45.


Doctrine and Covenants 68:6.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Do You Know Why I as a Christian Believe in Christ?","year":"2023","month":"04"}



Do You Know Why I as a Christian Believe in Christ?

By Elder Ahmad S. Corbitt
Of the Seventy

Jesus Christ had to suffer, die, and rise again to redeem all humanity from physical death and to give eternal life with God.


One evening after work, years ago, I boarded my usual bus home to New Jersey from New York City. The woman I happened to sit next to noticed what I was writing on my computer and asked, “You believe in … Christ?” I said, “Yes, I do!” As we talked, I learned she had just moved to the area from her beautiful Asian country to work in New York’s highly competitive information technology sector.
Naturally, I asked her, “Do you know why I as a Christian believe in Jesus Christ?” She too responded normally and invited me to tell her. But as I went to speak, I had one of those moments where many thoughts flood your mind. This was the first time I would explain the “why” of Christianity to someone very unfamiliar with it and highly intelligent. I couldn’t simply say, “I follow Jesus Christ because He willingly suffered and died for my sins.” She might wonder, “Did Jesus have to die? Couldn’t God simply forgive and cleanse us of our sins if we asked Him to?”
How would you have responded in a few minutes? How would you explain this to a friend? Children and youth: would you please ask your parents or a leader later on, “Why did Jesus have to die?” And, brothers and sisters, I have a confession to make: despite all I thought I knew about Church doctrine, history, policy, and so on, the answer to this central question to our faith did not come so easily. That day I decided to focus more on what matters most to eternal life.
Well, I informed my new friend1 that we have a spirit in addition to a body and that God is the Father of our spirits.2 I told her we lived with our Heavenly Father before our births into this mortal world.3 Because He loves her and all His children, He made a plan for us to receive a body in the image of His glorified body,4 be part of a family,5 and return to His loving presence to enjoy eternal life with our families6 like He does with His.7 But, I said, we would face two main obstacles in this necessarily fallen world:8 (1) physical death—the separation of our bodies from our spirits. Of course, she knew we would all die. And (2) spiritual death—our separation from God because our sins, mistakes, and flaws as mortals distance us from His holy presence.9 She related to this too.
I informed her that this was an effect of the law of justice. This eternal law demands that an eternal penalty be paid for every one of our sins, or violations of God’s laws or truth, or we could never return to live in His holy presence.10 It would be unjust, and God “cannot deny justice.”11 She understood this but easily grasped that God is also merciful, loving, and eager to bring to pass our eternal life.12 I informed my friend that we would also have a cunning, powerful adversary—the source of evil and lies—opposing us.13 Therefore, someone with infinite godly power to overcome all such opposition and obstacles would need to save us.14
I then shared with her the good news—the “good tidings of great joy … to all people”15—that “God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.”16 I testified to my friend, and I witness to you, that Jesus Christ is that Savior, that He had to suffer, die, and rise again—His infinite Atonement—to redeem all humanity from physical death17 and to give eternal life with God and our families18 to all who would follow Him. The Book of Mormon declares, “Thus God … gained the victory over death; giving the Son power to make intercession for the children of men … ; being filled with [mercy and] compassion … ; having broken the bands of death, taken upon himself their iniquity and their transgressions, having redeemed them, and satisfied the demands of justice.”19
The steps God revealed we must take to follow Jesus and receive eternal life are called the doctrine of Christ. They include “faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, repentance, baptism [into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints], receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end.”20 I shared these steps with my friend, but here are some ways in which prophets and apostles have recently taught how the doctrine of Christ can bless all God’s children.
President Russell M. Nelson instructed: “The pure doctrine of Christ is powerful. It changes the life of everyone who understands it and seeks to implement it in his or her life.”21
Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf taught, “[The] For the Strength of Youth [guide] is bold in declaring the doctrine of … Christ [and] inviting you [youth] to make choices based on [it].”22
Elder Dale G. Renlund taught, “We invite missionaries to do what they ask those they teach to do: … apply the doctrine of Christ in their lives [and] get on and stay on the covenant path.”23
The doctrine of Christ empowers those who are struggling or feel they don’t belong in the Church because it helps them, as Elder D. Todd Christofferson stated, “affirm: Jesus Christ died for me … [and] loves me.”24
Parents, if your child struggles with a gospel principle or prophetic teaching, please resist any type of evil speaking25 or activism toward the Church or its leaders. These lesser, secular approaches are beneath you and can be lethal to the long-term faithfulness of your child.26 It speaks so well of you that you would protect or advocate for your precious child or show signs of solidarity with him or her. But my wife, Jayne, and I know from personal experience that teaching your beloved child why we all desperately need Jesus Christ and how to apply His joyful doctrine is what will strengthen and heal him or her. Let us turn them to Jesus, who is their true advocate with the Father. The Apostle John taught, “Whosoever … abideth in the doctrine of Christ … hath both the Father and the Son.” He then warns us to beware “if there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine.”27
Jayne and I recently visited the wilderness where Moses held up a serpent of brass before the wandering children of Israel. The Lord had promised to heal all who were bitten by poisonous snakes if they would simply look upon it.28 In holding up the doctrine of Christ before us, the Lord’s prophet is doing the same, “that he should heal the nations.”29 Whatever the bites or poison or struggles we experience in this mortal wilderness, let us not be as those who, anciently and presently, could have been healed but, sadly, “would not look … because they did not believe that it would heal them.”30 The Book of Mormon affirms: “Behold, … this is the way; and there is none other way nor name given under heaven whereby man can be saved in the kingdom of God. And now, behold, this is the doctrine of Christ.”31
That evening in New Jersey, sharing why we need Jesus Christ and His doctrine gave me a new sister and her a new brother. We felt the peaceful, confirming witness of the Holy Ghost. Naturally, I invited her to share her contact information and continue the conversation with our missionaries. She was happy to do so.
“Wherefore, how great the importance to make these things known unto the inhabitants of the earth,” the Book of Mormon declares—to love, share, and invite32 as we gather Israel in all our communities and families—“that they may know that there is no flesh that can dwell in the presence of God, save it be through the merits, and mercy, and grace [and doctrine] of the Holy Messiah.”33 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


I have chosen not to publicize my friend’s name or to use a fictitious name.


See Romans 8:15–17; Hebrews 12:9; Doctrine and Covenants 88:15.


See Jeremiah 1:4–5; Doctrine and Covenants 138:55–56; Abraham 3:22–23, 26; Guide to the Scriptures, “Premortal Life,” scriptures.ChurchofJesusChrist.org; “Lesson 2: The Plan of Salvation,” Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Missionary Service (2019), 48.


See “Lesson 2: The Plan of Salvation,” Preach My Gospel, 48.


The Father’s perfect plan—called the great plan of happiness, the plan of salvation, and the plan of redemption, among other references—is organized such that everyone who comes into mortality necessarily does so into a family, and everyone is part of a family. Of course, not all family circumstances are ideal or accord with our Father’s loving vision for all His children, and some circumstances are tragic. However, as we live the doctrine of Christ, Jesus Christ helps us receive all the blessings the Father has for His children through His merciful and comprehensive plan. See also endnote 6.


One of the greatest promises God has made to His children is also the greatest of all His gifts to us: exaltation, or eternal life, which is to live eternally “in God’s presence and to continue as families” (Gospel Topics, “Eternal Life,” topics.ChurchofJesusChrist.org; see also Doctrine and Covenants 14:7). “Families” include husband, wife, and children, as well as our living and deceased relatives who accept and live the doctrine of Christ. Already-deceased family members in the spirit world who were not able to embrace the doctrine of Christ in this life can do so in the spirit world as ordinances like baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and others that help us endure to the end are lovingly performed vicariously by living relatives in temples of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Additionally, the promise of eternal life is not just to those who are married in this life. President M. Russell Ballard taught, “Scriptures and latter-day prophets confirm that everyone who is faithful in keeping gospel covenants will have the opportunity for exaltation” (“Hope in Christ,” Liahona, May 2021, 55; emphasis added). Citing President Russell M. Nelson and President Dallin H. Oaks, President Ballard continued, “The precise time and manner in which the blessings of exaltation are bestowed have not all been revealed, but they are nonetheless assured” (“Hope in Christ,” 55; emphasis added). President Nelson taught: “In the Lord’s own way and time, no [blessing] will be withheld from His faithful Saints. The Lord will judge and reward each individual according to heartfelt desire as well as deed” (“Celestial Marriage,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2008, 94). And President Oaks explained, “Many of the most important deprivations of mortality will be set right in the Millennium, which is the time for fulfilling all that is incomplete in the great plan of happiness for all of our Father’s worthy children” (“The Great Plan of Happiness,” Ensign, Nov. 1993, 75). See also endnote 5.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Plan of Redemption,” scriptures.ChurchofJesusChrist.org; see also Gospel Topics, “Plan of Salvation,” topics.ChurchofJesusChrist.org; “Lesson 2: The Plan of Salvation,” Preach My Gospel, 48–50, 53.


See “Lesson 2: The Plan of Salvation,” Preach My Gospel, 49.


See “Lesson 2: The Plan of Salvation,” Preach My Gospel, 47–50.


See “Lesson 2: The Plan of Salvation,” Preach My Gospel, 47–50.


Mosiah 15:27. References to eternal justice or God’s justice abound in the scriptures, but see particularly Alma 41:2–8 and Alma 42.


See Alma 42:14–24; Moses 1:39.


See “Lesson 2: The Plan of Salvation,” Preach My Gospel, 47–50.


See Alma 34:9–13; see also Mosiah 13:28, 34–35; 15:1–9; Alma 42:15.


Luke 2:10.


John 3:16.


See Helaman 14:15–17; Mormon 9:12–14.


See endnotes 5 and 6.


Mosiah 15:8–9.


“What Is My Purpose as a Missionary?,” Preach My Gospel, 1; see also “Lesson 3: The Gospel of Jesus Christ,” Preach My Gospel, 63.


Russell M. Nelson, “Pure Truth, Pure Doctrine, and Pure Revelation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 6; emphasis added.


Dieter F. Uchtdorf, “Jesus Christ Is the Strength of Youth,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 11; see also For the Strength of Youth: A Guide for Making Choices (2022), 4.


Dale G. Renlund, “Lifelong Conversion of Missionaries” (address given at the mission leadership seminar, June 25, 2021), 1, Church History Library, Salt Lake City.


D. Todd Christofferson, “The Doctrine of Belonging,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 56; see also D. Todd Christofferson, “The Joy of the Saints,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 15–18.


See James 4:11; Doctrine and Covenants 20:54; Guide to the Scriptures, “Evil Speaking,” scriptures.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See Ahmad S. Corbitt, “Activism vs. Discipleship: Protecting the Valiant” (address given at the chaplains’ seminar, Oct. 2022), cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/24159863/Brother_Corbitt_Chaplain_seminar.pdf; video: media2.ldscdn.org/assets/general-authority-features/2022-chaplain-training-seminar/2022-10-1000-activism-vs-discipleship-1080p-eng.mp4.


2 John 1:9–10.


See Numbers 21:5–9.


2 Nephi 25:20.


Alma 33:20.


2 Nephi 31:21.


See “2021 Broadcast: Principles of Love, Share, and Invite,” broadcasts.ChurchofJesusChrist.org; see also Gary E. Stevenson, “Love, Share, Invite,” Liahona, May 2022, 84–87.


2 Nephi 2:8.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"“Abide in Me, and I in You; Therefore Walk with Me”","year":"2023","month":"04"}



“Abide in Me, and I in You; Therefore Walk with Me”

By Elder David A. Bednar
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

The Savior’s promise to abide in us is true and available to every covenant-keeping member of His restored Church.


The ancient prophet Enoch, described in the Old Testament, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price,1 was instrumental in establishing the city of Zion.
The scriptural account of Enoch’s call to serve indicates that “he heard a voice from heaven, saying: Enoch, my son, prophesy unto this people, and say unto them—Repent, … for their hearts have waxed hard, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes cannot see afar off.”2
“And when Enoch had heard these words, he bowed himself to the earth … and spake before the Lord, saying: Why is it that I have found favor in thy sight, and am but a lad, and all the people hate me; for I am slow of speech; wherefore am I thy servant?”3
Please notice that at the time of Enoch’s call to serve, he became acutely aware of his personal inadequacies and limitations. And I suspect all of us at one time or another in our Church service have felt much like Enoch. But I believe the Lord’s response to Enoch’s pleading question is instructive and applies to each of us today.
“And the Lord said unto Enoch: Go forth and do as I have commanded thee, and no man shall pierce thee. Open thy mouth, and it shall be filled, and I will give thee utterance. …
“Behold my Spirit is upon you, wherefore all thy words will I justify; and the mountains shall flee before you, and the rivers shall turn from their course; and thou shalt abide in me, and I in you; therefore walk with me.”4
Enoch ultimately became a mighty prophet and a tool in God’s hands to accomplish a great work, but he did not start his ministry that way! Rather, his capacity over time was magnified as he learned to abide in and walk with the Son of God.
I earnestly pray for the help of the Holy Ghost as we consider together the counsel given to Enoch by the Lord and what it can mean for you and me today.


Thou Shalt Abide in Me

The Lord Jesus Christ extends to each of us the invitation to abide in Him.5 But how do we actually learn and come to abide in Him?
The word abide denotes remaining fixed or stable and enduring without yielding. Elder Jeffrey R. Holland explained that “abiding” as an action means “‘[to] stay—but [to] stay forever.’ That is the call of the gospel message to … everyone … in the world. Come, but come to remain. Come with conviction and endurance. Come permanently, for your sake and the sake of all the generations who must follow you.”6 Thus, we abide in Christ as we are firm and steadfast in our devotion to the Redeemer and His holy purposes, in times both good and bad.7
We begin to abide in the Lord by exercising our moral agency to take upon ourselves His yoke8 through the covenants and ordinances of the restored gospel. The covenant connection we have with our Heavenly Father and His resurrected and living Son is the supernal source of perspective, hope, power, peace, and enduring joy; it also is the rock-solid foundation9 upon which we should build our lives.
We abide in Him by striving continually to strengthen our individual covenant bond with the Father and the Son. For example, praying sincerely to the Eternal Father in the name of His Beloved Son deepens and fortifies our covenant connection with Them.
We abide in Him by truly feasting upon the words of Christ. The Savior’s doctrine draws us, as children of the covenant, closer to Him10 and will tell us all things what we should do.11
We abide in Him by preparing earnestly to participate in the ordinance of the sacrament, reviewing and reflecting on our covenant promises, and repenting sincerely. Worthily partaking of the sacrament is a witness to God that we are willing to take upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ and strive to “always remember him”12 after the brief period of time required to participate in that sacred ordinance.
And we abide in Him by serving God as we serve His children and minister to our brothers and sisters.13
The Savior said, “If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and abide in his love.”14
I briefly have described several of the many ways we can abide in the Savior. And I now invite each of us as His disciples to ask, seek, knock, and learn for ourselves by the power of the Holy Ghost other meaningful ways we can make Christ the center of our lives in all that we do.



And I in You

The Savior’s promise to His followers is twofold: if we abide in Him, He will abide in us. But is it indeed possible for Christ to abide in you and me—individually and personally? The answer to this question is a resounding yes!
In the Book of Mormon, we learn about Alma’s teaching and testifying to the poor whose afflictions had compelled them to be humble. In his instruction, he compared the word to a seed that must be planted and nourished, and he described “the word” as the life, mission, and atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
Alma said, “Begin to believe in the Son of God, that he will come to redeem his people, and that he shall suffer and die to atone for their sins; and that he shall rise again from the dead, which shall bring to pass the resurrection, that all men shall stand before him, to be judged at the last and judgment day, according to their works.”15
Given this description of “the word” by Alma, please consider the inspiring connection he then identifies.
“And now … I desire that ye shall plant this word in your hearts, and as it beginneth to swell even so nourish it by your faith. And behold, it will become a tree, springing up in you unto everlasting life. And then may God grant unto you that your burdens may be light, through the joy of his Son. And even all this can ye do if ye will.”16
The seed we should strive to plant in our hearts is the word—even the life, mission, and doctrine of Jesus Christ. And as the word is nourished by faith, it can become a tree springing up in us unto everlasting life.17
What was the symbolism of the tree in Lehi’s vision? The tree can be considered as a representation of Jesus Christ.18
My beloved brothers and sisters, is the Word in us? Are the truths of the Savior’s gospel written in the fleshy tables of our hearts?19 Are we coming unto and gradually becoming more like Him? Is the tree of Christ growing in us? Are we striving to become “new [creatures]”20 in Him?21
Perhaps this miraculous potential inspired Alma to ask: “Have ye spiritually been born of God? Have ye received his image in your countenances? Have ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts?”22
We should always remember the Lord’s instruction to Enoch: “Thou shalt abide in me, and I in you.”23 And I testify the Savior’s promise to abide in us is true and available to every covenant-keeping member of His restored Church.



Therefore Walk with Me

The Apostle Paul admonished believers who had received the Lord: “So walk ye in him.”24
Walking in and with the Savior highlights two vital aspects of discipleship: (1) obeying God’s commandments, and (2) remembering and honoring the sacred covenants that connect us to the Father and the Son.
John declared:
“And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments.
“He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him.
“But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected: hereby know we that we are in him.
“He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also so to walk, even as he walked.”25
Jesus beckons to each of us, “Come, follow me”26 and “walk with me.”27
I testify that as we press forward in faith and walk in the meekness of the Lord’s Spirit,28 we are blessed with power, guidance, protection, and peace.



Testimony and Promise

Alma describes a loving entreaty from the Lord to all living souls:
“Behold, he sendeth an invitation unto all men, for the arms of mercy are extended towards them, and he saith: Repent, and I will receive you.
“… Come unto me and ye shall partake of the fruit of the tree of life; yea, ye shall eat and drink of the bread and the waters of life freely.”29
I emphasize the absolute comprehensiveness of the Savior’s plea. He yearns to bless with His grace and mercy every single person who now lives, who has ever lived, and who will yet live upon the earth.
Some Church members accept as true the doctrine, principles, and testimonies proclaimed repeatedly from this pulpit in the Conference Center and in local congregations around the world—and yet may struggle to believe these eternal truths apply specifically in their lives and to their circumstances. They believe sincerely and serve dutifully, but their covenant connection with the Father and His redeeming Son has not yet become a living and transforming reality in their lives.
I promise that by the power of the Holy Ghost, you can know and feel the gospel truths I have attempted to describe are for you—for you individually and personally.
I joyfully witness that Jesus Christ is our loving and living Savior and Redeemer. If we abide in Him, He will abide in us.30 And as we walk in and with Him, we will be blessed to bring forth much fruit. I so testify in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Genesis 5:18–24; Doctrine and Covenants 107:48–57; Moses 6–7.


Moses 6:27.


Moses 6:31.


Moses 6:32, 34; emphasis added.


See John 15:4–9.


Jeffrey R. Holland, “Abide in Me,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2004, 32.


See John 15:10.


See Matthew 11:29–30.


See Helaman 5:12.


See 3 Nephi 27:14–15.


See 2 Nephi 32:3.


Moroni 4:3; 5:2.


See Mosiah 2:17.


John 15:10.


Alma 33:22.


Alma 33:23; emphasis added.


See Alma 26:13.


I explained this principle in a devotional in 2017:
“Alma … ‘began to preach the word of God unto the people, entering into their synagogues, and into their houses; yea, and even they did preach the word in their streets’ [Alma 32:1; emphasis added]. He also compared the word of God to a seed.
“‘Now, if ye give place, that a seed may be planted in your heart, behold, if it be a true seed, or a good seed, if ye do not cast it out by your unbelief, that ye will resist the Spirit of the Lord, behold, it will begin to swell within your breasts; and when you feel these swelling motions, ye will begin to say within yourselves—It must needs be that this is a good seed, or that the word is good, for it beginneth to enlarge my soul; yea, it beginneth to enlighten my understanding, yea, it beginneth to be delicious to me’ [Alma 32:28; emphasis added].
“Interestingly, a good seed becomes a tree as it is planted in the heart and begins to swell, sprout, and grow.
“‘And behold, as the tree beginneth to grow, ye will say: Let us nourish it with great care, that it may get root, that it may grow up, and bring forth fruit unto us. And now behold, if ye nourish it with much care it will get root, and grow up, and bring forth fruit.
“‘But if ye neglect the tree, and take no thought for its nourishment, behold it will not get any root; and when the heat of the sun cometh and scorcheth it, because it hath no root it withers away, and ye pluck it up and cast it out.
“‘Now, this is not because the seed was not good, neither is it because the fruit thereof would not be desirable; but it is because your ground is barren, and ye will not nourish the tree, therefore ye cannot have the fruit thereof.
“‘And thus, if ye will not nourish the word, looking forward with an eye of faith to the fruit thereof, ye can never pluck of the fruit of the tree of life.
“‘But if ye will nourish the word, yea, nourish the tree as it beginneth to grow, by your faith with great diligence, and with patience, looking forward to the fruit thereof, it shall take root; and behold it shall be a tree springing up unto everlasting life’ [Alma 32:37–41; emphasis added].
“… The central feature in Lehi’s dream is the tree of life—a representation of ‘the love of God’ [1 Nephi 11:21–22].
“‘For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life’ [John 3:16].
“The birth, life, and atoning sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ are the greatest manifestations of God’s love for His children. As Nephi testified, this love was ‘most desirable above all things’ and ‘most joyous to the soul’ [1 Nephi 11:22–23; see also 1 Nephi 8:12, 15]. Chapter 11 of 1 Nephi presents a detailed description of the tree of life as a symbol for the life, ministry, and sacrifice of the Savior—the ‘condescension of God’ [1 Nephi 11:16]. The tree can be considered as a representation of Christ.
“One way of thinking about the fruit on the tree is as a symbol for the blessings of the Savior’s Atonement. The fruit is described as ‘desirable to make one happy’ [1 Nephi 8:10] and produces great joy and the desire to share that joy with others.
“Significantly, the overarching theme of the Book of Mormon, inviting all to come unto Christ [see Moroni 10:32], is paramount in Lehi’s vision [see 1 Nephi 8:19]” (“The Power of His Word Which Is in Us” [address given at seminar for new mission leaders, June 27, 2017], 4–5).


See 2 Corinthians 3:3.


2 Corinthians 5:17.


Alma’s analogy teaches us that the desire to believe plants the seed in our hearts, nourishing the seed by our faith sprouts the tree of life, and nourishing the tree produces fruit of the tree, which is “sweet above all that is sweet” (Alma 32:42) and is “the greatest of all the gifts of God” (1 Nephi 15:36).


Alma 5:14.


Moses 6:34; emphasis added.


Colossians 2:6.


1 John 2:3–6; emphasis added.


Luke 18:22.


Moses 6:34.


See Doctrine and Covenants 19:23.


Alma 5:33–34; emphasis added.


See John 15:5.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Answer Is Always Jesus Christ","year":"2023","month":"04"}



The Answer Is Always Jesus Christ

By President Russell M. Nelson
President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Whatever questions or problems you have, the answer is always found in the life and teachings of Jesus Christ.


My dear brothers and sisters, we have been spiritually fed during these last two days. The choir music was superb. Those who have spoken have been instruments for the Lord. I pray that you will seek for the Holy Ghost to guide you in your study as you contemplate the truths taught from this pulpit. They have truly been heaven sent.
One week from today is Easter Sunday. It is the most important religious observance for followers of Jesus Christ. The main reason we celebrate Christmas is because of Easter. The Come, Follow Me lesson this week will prompt you to study the Savior’s triumphal entry into Jerusalem, His cleansing of the temple, His suffering in the Garden of Gethsemane, His Crucifixion, His glorious Resurrection, and His subsequent appearances to His followers.1
Savor these sacred verses and find every way you can to thank our Heavenly Father for sending us His Only Begotten Son.2 Because of Jesus Christ, we can repent and be forgiven of our sins. Because of Him, each of us will be resurrected.
I also invite you to study again the account of the Savior’s appearance to the Nephites in the Americas, as recorded in 3 Nephi. Not long before that appearance, His voice was heard among the people, including these words of supplication:
“Will ye not now return unto me, and repent of your sins, and be converted, that I may heal you?
“… Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive.”3
Dear brothers and sisters, Jesus Christ extends that same invitation to you today. I plead with you to come unto Him so that He can heal you! He will heal you from sin as you repent. He will heal you from sadness and fear. He will heal you from the wounds of this world.
Whatever questions or problems you have, the answer is always found in the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. Learn more about His Atonement, His love, His mercy, His doctrine, and His restored gospel of healing and progression. Turn to Him! Follow Him!
Jesus Christ is the reason we build temples. Each is His holy house. Making covenants and receiving essential ordinances in the temple, as well as seeking to draw closer to Him there, will bless your life in ways no other kind of worship can. For this reason, we are doing all within our power to make the blessings of the temple more accessible to our members around the world. Today, I am grateful to announce our plans to build a new temple in each of the following locations:


Retalhuleu, Guatemala


Iquitos, Peru


Teresina, Brazil


Natal, Brazil


Tuguegarao City, Philippines


Iloilo, Philippines


Jakarta, Indonesia


Hamburg, Germany


Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada


San Jose, California


Bakersfield, California


Springfield, Missouri


Charlotte, North Carolina


Winchester, Virginia


Harrisburg, Pennsylvania


My dear brothers and sisters, I bear witness that Jesus Christ directs the affairs of His Church. I testify that following Him is the only way to enduring happiness. I know that His power is descending upon His covenant-keeping people, who are “armed with righteousness and with the power of God in great glory.”4 I so testify, with my love and blessing for each of you, in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Come, Follow Me—For Individuals and Families: New Testament 2023, 57–60.


See John 3:16.


3 Nephi 9:13–14.


1 Nephi 14:14.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"In the Path of Their Duty","year":"2023","month":"10"}



In the Path of Their Duty

By Elder David A. Bednar
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

You who today are pressing forward in the path of your duty are the strength of the Savior’s restored Church.


I earnestly pray for the help of the Holy Ghost as I now express my love, admiration, and gratitude for the members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints all around the world.


They of the Last Wagon

The year 1947 marked the 100th anniversary of the first Latter-day Saint pioneers arriving in the Salt Lake Valley. Many memorable celebrations were held during that year, and countless expressions of gratitude were offered for the devoted disciples of Jesus Christ who blazed trails, built homes, planted crops in the barren desert, and settled communities.
President J. Reuben Clark, First Counselor in the First Presidency, gave one of the most memorable and touching tributes to these faithful pioneers in the October 1947 general conference.
In his message, President Clark briefly acknowledged the well-known leaders who guided the westward migration, such as Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Wilford Woodruff, Parley P. Pratt, and many others. However, his primary purpose was not to recount the accomplishments of these noteworthy individuals. Rather, he focused his remarks on the stalwart souls whose names are neither known nor officially recorded in Church history. The instructive title of his message is “They of the Last Wagon.”1
President Clark described in great detail the characteristics of and the challenges faced by the migrants who traveled in the last covered wagon in each of the long wagon trains that crossed the plains. He praised these anonymous and uncelebrated heroes who, day after day, week after week, and month after month, choked on the dust stirred up by all of the wagons rolling in front of them—and who overcame the relentless obstacles they encountered along the way.
President Clark declared, “They of the last wagon pressed forward, worn and tired, footsore, sometimes almost disheartened, borne up by their faith that God loved them, that the restored gospel was true, and that the Lord led and directed the Brethren out in front.”2
He concluded his message with this stirring commendation: “To these humble souls, great in faith, great in work, great in righteous living, great in fashioning our priceless heritage, I humbly render my love, my respect, my reverent homage.”3



No Less Serviceable

In 1990, President Howard W. Hunter, then President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, delivered a message about the indispensable contributions of countless Church members who serve diligently and faithfully and who receive little or no public acknowledgment or acclaim.
President Hunter explained:
“It was said [about the young and valiant Captain Moroni]:
“‘If all men had been, and were, and ever would be, like unto Moroni, behold, the very powers of hell would have been shaken forever; yea, the devil would never have power over the hearts of the children of men’ (Alma 48:17).
“What a compliment to a famous and powerful man. … Two verses later is a statement about Helaman and his brethren, who played a less conspicuous role than Moroni, that reads:
“‘Now behold, Helaman and his brethren were no less serviceable unto the people than was Moroni’ (Alma 48:19).”
President Hunter continued, “In other words, even though Helaman was not as noticeable or conspicuous as Moroni, he was as serviceable; that is, he was as helpful or useful as Moroni.”4
President Hunter then counseled all of us to be no less serviceable. He said: “If you feel that much of what you do this year or in the years to come does not make you very famous, take heart. Most of the best people who ever lived weren’t very famous either. Serve and grow, faithfully and quietly.”5



In the Path of Their Duty

I am grateful for millions of Church members who today are coming unto the Savior6 and pressing forward on the covenant path in the last wagons of our contemporary wagon trains—and who truly are no less serviceable. Your strong faith in Heavenly Father and the Lord Jesus Christ and your unpretentious, consecrated lives inspire me to be a better man and disciple.
I love you. I admire you. I thank you. And I commend you.
A statement in the Book of Mormon by Samuel the Lamanite best summarizes my feelings for you.
“Behold that the more part of them are in the path of their duty, and they do walk circumspectly before God, and they do observe to keep his commandments and his statutes. …
“Yea, I say unto you, that the more part of them are doing this, and they are striving with unwearied diligence that they may bring the remainder of their brethren to the knowledge of the truth.”7
I believe the phrase “in the path of their duty” describes discerning brothers and sisters who look for and sit next to people who are alone in Church meetings and in a variety of other settings. They consistently strive to “comfort those that stand in need of comfort,”8 without expectations of acknowledgment or praise.
The phrase “in the path of their duty” describes spouses and children who support a companion, parent, or child who serves in a leadership position in the Lord’s restored Church. Their steady, quiet, and typically unrecognized sustaining influence makes possible the blessing of many individuals and families in ways that will be fully known only in eternity.
The phrase “in the path of their duty” describes individuals who, having turned away from God, humbly are re-turning to Him once again,9 repenting of their sins, and seeking the cleansing and healing power of the Savior’s Atonement. Coming unto Christ10 by returning to the covenant path from sinful detours into “forbidden paths”11 is spiritually essential and righteously rigorous. As they press forward with faith and weary not in well-doing, they are laying the foundation of a great work in their individual lives,12 “to all generations and for eternity.”13
The phrase “in the path of their duty” describes righteous individuals who yearn to become yoked to the Savior through the authorized covenants and ordinances of His gospel—but may be prohibited from doing so by factors beyond their control. I promise your personal anguish will be relieved and your obedience and faithfulness to patiently submit your will to God will be rewarded in “the own due time of the Lord.”14 “Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.”15
The phrase “in the path of their duty” describes the inspired translators and interpreters around the world who serve the Lord by helping friends and members to “hear the fulness of the gospel in [their] own tongue, and in [their] own language.”16 Their voices, signed language, and translated documents convey eternal truths, yet few of us know their names or ever express appreciation. Through the gift of tongues with which they have been blessed, translators and interpreters serve diligently, selflessly, and, most often, anonymously to help people receive the spiritual gift of faith through reading and hearing the word of God.17
The phrase “in the path of their duty” describes faithful married men and women who honor their covenant responsibility to multiply and replenish the earth and who are blessed with the strength and stamina to wrestle with their children in sacrament meetings. In an increasingly confused world beset with calamities and misplaced priorities, these courageous souls heed not the secular voices extolling self-centeredness; they reverence the sanctity and importance of life in Heavenly Father’s plan of happiness for His children.
Many married couples also trust in God when the righteous desires of their hearts are not realized how or when they had hoped and dreamed. They “wait upon the Lord”18 and do not demand that He meet their mortal deadlines. “For since the beginning of the world have not men heard nor perceived by the ear, neither hath any eye seen, O God, besides thee, how great things thou hast prepared for [them] that waiteth for thee.”19
The phrase “in the path of their duty” describes the thousands and thousands of nursery leaders and Primary teachers who love and instruct the children of the Church each Sabbath day.
Consider the eternal impact of the service rendered by these devoted disciples—and the marvelous blessings promised to those who minister to children.
“And [Jesus] took a child, and set him in the midst of them: and when he had taken him in his arms, he said unto them,
“Whosoever shall receive one of such children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me.”20
The phrase “in the path of their duty” describes dedicated children tenderly caring for aged parents, a sleep-deprived mother comforting a frightened child while standing guard as a “lioness at the gate” of her home,21 Church members who arrive early and stay late to set up and take down chairs, and inspired individuals who invite family, friends, and associates to come and see, come and help, and come and stay.22
I have described only a few selected examples of covenant-keeping and devoted disciples of Jesus Christ like you who are pressing forward “in the path of [your] duty.” Millions of additional examples of Latter-day Saints who offer their “whole souls”23 unto God are found in Christ-centered homes and in Church units around the world.
You love and serve, listen and learn, care and console, and teach and testify by the power of the Holy Ghost. You fast and pray often, wax stronger and stronger in humility, and grow firmer and firmer in the faith of Christ, “unto the filling [your] souls with joy and consolation, yea, even to the purifying and the sanctification of [your] hearts, which sanctification cometh because of … yielding [your] hearts unto God.”24



Promise and Testimony

They of the last wagon, all who are no less serviceable, and you who today are pressing forward in the path of your duty are the strength of the Savior’s restored Church. And as the Lord has promised, “all thrones and dominions, principalities and powers, shall be revealed and set forth upon all who have endured valiantly for the gospel of Jesus Christ.”25
I joyfully witness that Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son live and Their promises are sure, in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


J. Reuben Clark, “They of the Last Wagon,” Improvement Era, Nov. 1947, 704–5, 747–48; see also J. Reuben Clark, in Conference Report, Oct. 1947, 154–60; “To Them of the Last Wagon,” Ensign, July 1997, 34–39.


J. Reuben Clark, “They of the Last Wagon,” 705.


J. Reuben Clark, “They of the Last Wagon,” 748.


Howard W. Hunter, “No Less Serviceable” (Brigham Young University devotional, Sept. 2, 1990), 1–2, speeches.byu.edu.


Howard W. Hunter, “No Less Serviceable,” 6.


See Moroni 10:32–33.


Helaman 15:5–6; emphasis added.


Mosiah 18:9.


See Helaman 7:17.


See Moroni 10:30, 32.


1 Nephi 8:28.


See Doctrine and Covenants 64:33.


Doctrine and Covenants 109:24.


1 Nephi 10:3; see also 3 Nephi 5:25; 20:29.


Psalm 30:5.


Doctrine and Covenants 90:11.


See Romans 10:17.


Isaiah 40:31.


Doctrine and Covenants 133:45.


Mark 9:36–37.


Julie B. Beck, “Choose Ye This Day to Serve the Lord” (Brigham Young University Women’s Conference, Apr. 29, 2010), 4, womensconference.byu.edu.


See Dieter F. Uchtdorf, “Missionary Work: Sharing What Is in Your Heart,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 15–18.


Omni 1:26.


Helaman 3:35.


Doctrine and Covenants 121:29.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Abide the Day in Christ","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Abide the Day in Christ

By Sister Amy A. Wright
First Counselor in the Primary General Presidency

Jesus Christ makes it possible for us to “abide the day.”


It was a day filled with pointed and direct parables, complex questions, and profound doctrine. After delivering a scathing rebuke of those who were like “whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men’s bones, and of all uncleanness,”1 Jesus taught three more parables about spiritual preparedness and discipleship. One of these was the parable of the ten virgins.
“Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom.
“And five of them were wise, and five were foolish.
“They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them:
“But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
“While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept.

“And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him.
“Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
“And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out.
“But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves.
“And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage: and the door was shut.
“Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.2
“But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, Ye know me not.3
“Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh.”4
President Dallin H. Oaks posed the following thought-provoking questions in relation to the coming of the Bridegroom:5 “What if the day of His coming were tomorrow? If we knew that we would meet the Lord tomorrow—through our premature death or through His unexpected coming—what would we do today?”6
I have learned from personal experience that spiritual preparation for the coming of the Lord is not only essential but the only way to find true peace and happiness.
It was a crisp fall day when I first heard the words “You have cancer.” My husband and I were stunned! As we drove home in silence, processing the news, my heart turned to our three sons.
In my mind I asked Heavenly Father, “Am I going to die?”
The Holy Ghost whispered, “Everything is going to be OK.”
Then I asked, “Am I going to live?”
Again, the answer came: “Everything is going to be OK.”
I was confused. Why did I receive the exact same answer whether I lived or died?
Then suddenly every fiber of my being filled with absolute peace as I was reminded: We did not need to hurry home and teach our children how to pray. They knew how to receive answers and comfort from prayer. We did not need to hurry home and teach them about the scriptures or words of living prophets. Those words were already a familiar source of strength and understanding. We did not need to hurry home and teach them about repentance, the Resurrection, the Restoration, the plan of salvation, eternal families, or the very doctrine of Jesus Christ.
In that moment every family home evening lesson, scripture study session, prayer of faith offered, blessing given, testimony shared, covenant made and kept, house of the Lord attended, and Sabbath day observed mattered—oh, how it mattered! It was too late to put oil in our lamps. We needed every single drop, and we needed it right now!
Because of Jesus Christ and His restored gospel, if I died, my family would be comforted, strengthened, and one day restored. If I lived, I would have access to the greatest power on this earth to help succor, sustain, and heal me. In the end, because of Jesus Christ, everything can be OK.

We learn from a careful study of the Doctrine and Covenants what “OK” looks like:
“And at that day, when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins.
“For they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived—verily I say unto you, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day.”7
Jesus Christ makes it possible for us to “abide the day.” Abiding the day does not mean adding to an ever-increasing to-do list. Think of a magnifying glass. Its sole purpose is not simply to make things appear bigger. It can also gather and focus light to make it more powerful. We need to simplify, focus our efforts, and be gatherers of the Light of Jesus Christ. We need more holy and revelatory experiences.
Located in northwestern Israel is a beautiful mountain range often referred to as the “evergreen mountain.” Mount Carmel8 stays green year-round due largely in part to tiny amounts of dew. Nourishment happens daily. Like “the dews of Carmel,”9 as we seek to nourish our souls “with things pertaining to righteousness,”10 “small and simple things,”11 our testimonies and the testimonies of our children will live!
Now, you may be thinking, “But Sister Wright, you do not know my family. We are really struggling and do not look anything like this.” You are correct. I do not know your family. But a God with infinite love, mercy, power, knowledge, and glory does.
The questions you may be asking are questions of the heart that ache in the depths of your soul. Similar questions are found in the holy scriptures:
“Master, carest thou not that [my family] perish?”12
“Where is now my hope?”13
“What shall [I] do, that this cloud of darkness may be removed from overshadowing [me]?”14
“Where shall wisdom be found? and where is the place of understanding?”15
“How is it possible that [I] can lay hold upon every good thing?”16
“Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?”17
And then ever so sweetly come the answers:
“Believest thou in the power of Christ unto salvation?”18
“Hath the Lord commanded any that they should not partake of his goodness?”19
“Believe ye that [He is] able to do this?”20
“Believest thou the prophets?”21
“Do ye exercise faith in the redemption of him who created you?”22
“Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?”23
My dear friends, we cannot share our oil, but we can share His light. Oil in our lamps will not only help us “abide the day” but can also be the means of illuminating the path that leads those we love to the Savior, who stands ready “with open arms to receive” them.24
“Thus saith the Lord; Refrain thy voice from weeping, and thine eyes from tears: for thy work shall be rewarded, … and they shall come again from the land of the enemy.
“And there is hope in thine end, saith the Lord, that thy children shall come again to their own border.”25
Jesus Christ is the “hope in thine end.” Nothing we have or have not done is beyond the reach of His infinite and eternal sacrifice. He is the reason why it is never the end of our story.26 Therefore we “must press forward with a steadfastness in Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope, and a love of God and of all men. Wherefore, if [we] shall press forward, feasting upon the word of Christ, and endure to the end, behold, thus saith the Father: [We] shall have eternal life.”27
Eternal life is eternal joy. Joy in this life, right now—not despite the challenges of our day but because of the Lord’s help to learn from and ultimately overcome them—and immeasurable joy in the life to come. Tears will dry up, broken hearts will be mended, what is lost shall be found, concerns shall be resolved, families will be restored, and all that the Father hath will be ours.28
Look to Jesus Christ and live29 is my testimony in the sacred and holy name of the beloved “Shepherd and Bishop of [our] souls,”30 Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Matthew 23:27.


Matthew 25:1–11.


Joseph Smith Translation, Matthew 25:11 (in Matthew 25:12, footnote a).


Matthew 25:13.


Elder James E. Talmage taught: “The Bridegroom is the Lord Jesus; the marriage feast symbolizes His coming in glory, to receive unto Himself the Church on earth as His bride. The virgins typify those who profess a belief in Christ, and who, therefore, confidently expect to be included among the blessed participants at the feast. The lighted lamp, which each of the maidens carried, is the outward profession of Christian belief and practise; and in the oil reserves of the wiser ones we may see the spiritual strength and abundance which diligence and devotion in God’s service alone can insure” (Jesus the Christ [1916], 578–79).


Dallin H. Oaks, “Preparation for the Second Coming,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2004, 9.


Doctrine and Covenants 45:56–57; emphasis added.


“Dewfall provides a limited amount of moisture even during the dry summer, and is important to summer crops such as watermelon. The nearer the area to the sea, the better are its prospects for dewfall on windless nights when the soil grows colder than the air which touches its surface. In general, the Coastal Plain has more dew than inland regions; richest is Mount Carmel, which has an average 250 nights of dew per year” (Efraim Orni and Elisha Efrat, Geography of Israel, 3rd rev. ed. [1971], 147).


Doctrine and Covenants 128:19.


Mosiah 23:18.


Alma 37:6.


Mark 4:38.


Job 17:15.


Helaman 5:40.


Job 28:12.


Moroni 7:20.


Acts 9:6.


Alma 15:6.


2 Nephi 26:28.


Matthew 9:28.


Acts 26:27.


Alma 5:15.


Genesis 18:25.


Mormon 6:17.


Jeremiah 31:16–17; emphasis added.


See Camille N. Johnson, “Invite Christ to Author Your Story,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 82: “Let the adversity and affliction that are part of every good story be a means by which you draw closer to, and become more like, Jesus Christ.”


2 Nephi 31:20.


See Doctrine and Covenants 84:38.


See Alma 37:47.


1 Peter 2:25.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Sir, We Would Like to See Jesus","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Sir, We Would Like to See Jesus

By Elder Robert M. Daines
Of the Seventy

We want to see Jesus for who He is and to feel His love.




Face Blindness

One day in the spring of 1945, a young man awoke in a military hospital. He was fortunate to be alive—he’d been shot just behind the ear, but doctors had operated, and he could now walk and talk normally.
Tragically, the bullet had damaged the part of his brain that recognized faces. He now looked at his wife without a spark of recognition; he couldn’t recognize his own mother. Even the face in the mirror was foreign to him—he couldn’t tell if it was a man or a woman.1
He’d become face-blind—a condition that affects millions of people.2
People who are severely face-blind try to identify others by memorizing rules—a rule for recognizing a daughter by the pattern of her freckles or a friend by her shuffling gait.



Growing Up

Here’s a second story, closer to home: As a young boy, I often saw my mom as the rule maker. She decided when I could play and when I had to go to bed or, worse, pull weeds in the yard.
She obviously loved me. But too often and to my shame, I saw her only as “She Who Must Be Obeyed.”
Only years later did I come to see her as a real person. I am embarrassed that I never really noticed her sacrifice or wondered why for years she only ever wore the same two old skirts (while I got new school clothes) or why, at the end of the day, she was so tired and eager for me to go to bed early.



We May Be Face-Blind

Perhaps you’ve noticed that these two stories are really one story—for too many years, I was, in effect, face-blind. I failed to see my mom as a real person. I saw her rules but didn’t see in them her love.
I tell you these two stories to make one point: I suspect you know someone (perhaps you are someone) who suffers from a kind of spiritual face blindness.
You may struggle to see God as a loving Father. You may look heavenward and see not the face of love and mercy but a thicket of rules through which you must wend your way. Perhaps you believe God rules in His heavens, speaks through His prophets, and loves your sister, but you secretly wonder whether He loves you.3 Perhaps you have felt the iron rod in your hand but not yet felt your Savior’s love to which it leads.4
I suspect you know people like this because for a long time, I was someone like this—I was spiritually face-blind.
I thought my life was about following rules and measuring up to abstract standards. I knew God loved you perfectly but didn’t feel it myself. I’m afraid I thought more about getting into heaven than being with my Heavenly Father.
If you, like me, can sometimes only lip-synch but not “sing the song of redeeming love,”5 what can we do?
The answer, as President Russell M. Nelson reminds us, is always Jesus.6 And that is very good news.



Sir, We Would Like to See Jesus

There’s a short verse in John that I love. It tells of a group of outsiders who make their way to a disciple with an important request. “Sir,” they say, “we would [like to] see Jesus.”7
That is what we all want—we want to see Jesus for who He is and to feel His love. This should be the reason for most of what we do in the Church—and certainly of every sacrament meeting. If you’re ever wondering what kind of lesson to teach, what kind of meeting to plan, and whether to just give up on the deacons and play dodgeball, you might take this verse as your guide: will this help people see and love Jesus Christ? If not, maybe try something else.
When I realized that I was spiritually face-blind, that I saw rules but not the face of the Father’s mercy, I knew it wasn’t the Church’s fault. It wasn’t God’s, and it didn’t mean everything was lost; it’s something we all have to learn. Even the early witnesses to the Resurrection often came face-to-face with the resurrected Lord but did not recognize Him; from the Garden Tomb to the shores of Galilee, His first followers “saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus.”8 They had to learn to recognize Him, and so do we.9



Charity

When I realized I was spiritually face-blind, I started to follow Mormon’s counsel to pray “with all the energy of heart” to be filled with the love promised His disciples—my love for Him and His love for me—and to “see him as he is … and have this hope.”10 I prayed for years to be able to follow the first great commandment to love God and to feel that “first great truth … that God loves us with all of His heart, might, mind, and strength.”11



The Gospels

I also read and reread and reread the four Gospels—this time reading not to extract rules but to see who He is and what He loves. And, in time, I was swept away by the river of love that flowed from Him.
Jesus announced at the outset that He had come “to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind.”12
This wasn’t just a to-do list or good PR; it is the shape of His love.
Open the Gospels at random; on almost every page we see Him caring for people who suffer—socially, spiritually, and physically. He touches people considered polluted and unclean13 and feeds the hungry.14
What is your favorite story of Jesus? I suspect it shows the Son of God reaching out to embrace or offer hope to someone on the margins—the leper,15 the hated Samaritan,16 the accused and scandalous sinner,17 or the national enemy.18 That kind of grace is amazing.
Try writing down every time He praises or heals or eats with an outsider, and you will run low on ink before you leave Luke.
As I saw this, my heart leapt in loving recognition, and I began to feel that He might love me. As President Nelson taught, “The more you learn about the Savior, the easier it will be to trust in His mercy, His infinite love.”19 And the more you will trust and love your Heavenly Father.
Elder Jeffrey R. Holland has taught us that Jesus came to show “us who and what God our Eternal Father is like, how completely devoted He is to His children in every age and nation.”20
Paul says God is “the Father of [all] mercies, and the God of all comfort.”21
If you see Him differently, please keep trying.



Covenants and God’s Embrace

Prophets invite us to seek His face.22 I take this as a reminder that we worship our Father, not a formula, and that we’re not finished until we see Jesus as the face of our Father’s love23 and follow Him, not just His rules.24
When prophets and apostles talk of covenants, they aren’t like coaches yelling out from (red velvet) bleachers, telling us to “try harder!” They want us to see our covenants are fundamentally about relationships25 and can be a cure for spiritual face blindness.26 They are not rules to earn His love; He already loves you perfectly. Our challenge is to understand and shape our life to that love.27
We try to see through our covenants, as if through a window, to the face of the Father’s mercy behind.
Covenants are the shape of God’s embrace.



The River of God’s Love

Finally, we can learn to see Him by serving Him. “For how knoweth a man the master whom he has not served?”28
A few years ago, I got a calling I didn’t feel up to. I awoke early, nervous—but with a phrase in mind I had not heard before: that to serve in this Church is to stand in the river of God’s love for His children. This Church is a work party of people with picks and shovels trying to help clear the channel for the river of God’s love to reach His children at the end of the row.
Whoever you are, whatever your past, there is room for you in this Church.29
Grab a pick and shovel and join the team. Help carry His love to His children, and some of it will splash on you.30
Let us seek His loving face, His covenant embrace, and then join arm in arm with His children, and together we will sing “Redeemer of Israel”:


Restore, my dear Savior,
The light of thy face;
Thy soul-cheering comfort impart;
And let the sweet longing
For thy holy place
Bring hope to my desolate heart.31


May we seek His loving face and then be vessels of His mercy to His children.32 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Hadyn D. Ellis and Melanie Florence, “Bodamer’s (1947) Paper on Prosopagnosia,” Cognitive Neuropsychology, vol. 7, no. 2 (1990), 84–91; Joshua Davis, “Face Blind,” Wired, Nov. 1, 2006, wired.com.


See Dennis Nealon, “How Common Is Face Blindness?,” Harvard Medical School, Feb. 24, 2023, hms.harvard.edu; Oliver Sacks, “Face-Blind,” New Yorker, Aug. 23, 2010, newyorker.com.


“Some Church members accept as true the doctrine, principles, and testimonies proclaimed repeatedly from this pulpit in the Conference Center and in local congregations around the world—and yet may struggle to believe these eternal truths apply specifically in their lives and to their circumstances” (David A. Bednar, “Abide in Me, and I in You; Therefore Walk with Me,” Liahona, May 2023, 125).


See 1 Nephi 8:19; 15:23. “It is hard to keep the Lord’s commandments without faith and trust in Him” (Henry B. Eyring, “The Faith to Ask and Then to Act,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 75).


Alma 5:26.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Answer Is Always Jesus Christ,” Liahona, May 2023, 127–28.


John 12:21.


John 20:14. They saw but did not know Him on the road to Emmaus (see Luke 24:16), in a locked room (see Luke 24:37), on the shores of Galilee (see John 21:4), and at the Garden Tomb (see John 20:14).


If we seek Him with all our heart and keep going with faith, He will be found.
“For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace, and not of evil. …
“And ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye shall search for me with all your heart” (Jeremiah 29:11, 13).
“The day shall come when you shall comprehend even God, being quickened in him and by him.
“Then shall ye know that ye have seen me, that I am” (Doctrine and Covenants 88:49–50).
“Every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am” (Doctrine and Covenants 93:1).


Moroni 7:48. Paul also connects charity with our ability to see clearly. At the conclusion of his great sermon on charity, he writes that though “now we see through a glass, darkly,” we will later see “face to face: … then shall I know even as also I am known” (1 Corinthians 13:12).


Jeffrey R. Holland, “Tomorrow the Lord Will Do Wonders among You,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2016, 127. “The greater definition of ‘the pure love of Christ’ … is not what we as Christians try but largely fail to demonstrate toward others but rather what Christ totally succeeded in demonstrating toward us. True charity has been known only once. It is shown perfectly and purely in Christ’s unfailing, ultimate, and atoning love for us” (Jeffrey R. Holland, Christ and the New Covenant: The Messianic Message of the Book of Mormon [1997], 336).


Luke 4:18, New King James Version.


See Matthew 8:3; 9:25.


See Matthew 14:13–21.


See Matthew 8:1–3.


See John 4:7–10; He praised the Samaritan (see Luke 10:25–37).


See Matthew 21:31; Luke 7:27–50; 15:1–10; John 8:2–12.


See Matthew 8:5–13.


Russell M. Nelson, “Christ Is Risen; Faith in Him Will Move Mountains,” Liahona, May 2021, 103.


Jeffrey R. Holland, “The Grandeur of God,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2003, 70. “He that hath seen me hath seen the Father” (John 14:9).


2 Corinthians 1:3.


See Psalm 27:8; Doctrine and Covenants 88:68.


See 2 Corinthians 4:6; Pope Francis, “Misericordiae Vultus: Bull of Indiction of the Extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy,” Apostolic Letters, vatican.va.


This is an important theme. It’s not just the work of salvation and exaltation but His work of salvation and exaltation (see General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1.2, Gospel Library). I don’t just go to a temple but to the house of the Lord; it’s not the Mormon Church but the Church of Jesus Christ (see Russell M. Nelson, “The Correct Name of the Church,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 87–89). Our leaders point us to Him and even remind us that there “is no amorphous entity called ‘the Atonement’ upon which we may call for succor, healing, forgiveness, or power. Jesus Christ is the source” (Russell M. Nelson, “Drawing the Power of Jesus Christ into Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2017, 40).


“The covenant path is all about our relationship with God”; it is the “path of love— … compassionate caring for and reaching out to each other” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” Liahona, Oct. 2022, 11).
See David A. Bednar, “The Blessed and Happy State” (address given at the seminar for new mission leaders, June 24, 2022); Scott Taylor, “Elder Bednar Shares 7 Lessons on ‘the Blessed and Happy State’ of Obedience,” Church News, June 27, 2022, thechurchnews.com.
“Entering into sacred covenants and worthily receiving priesthood ordinances yoke us with and bind us to the Lord Jesus Christ and Heavenly Father. This simply means that we trust in the Savior as our Advocate and Mediator and rely on His merits, mercy, and grace during the journey of life. …
“Living and loving covenant commitments creates a connection with the Lord that is deeply personal and spiritually powerful. … Jesus then becomes much more than the central character in scripture stories; His example and teachings influence our every desire, thought, and action” (David A. Bednar, “But We Heeded Them Not,” Liahona, May 2022, 15).
See also D. Todd Christofferson, “Our Relationship with God,” Liahona, May 2022, 78–80.


“And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh;
“For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live” (Doctrine and Covenants 84:21–22).


Patricia Holland, “A Future Filled with Hope” (worldwide devotional for young adults, Jan. 8, 2023), Gospel Library:
“You don’t have to run around chasing after [the hope that He will help you]; you don’t and you can’t manufacture it. Like so much in the realm of grace, you won’t acquire it by leaning on your own strength or on that of another person. There are no secret formulas or any magical mantras involved. …
“In fact, the part we play is important but actually very small; God has the larger portion of the task. Our part is to come unto Him in lowliness and simplicity, then we should worry not and fear not.”


Mosiah 5:13; see also John 17:3.


President Nelson has repeatedly called on us to “expand our circle of love to embrace the whole human family” (“Blessed Are the Peacemakers,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2002, 41). In May 2022 he told young adults that “labels can lead to judging and animosity. Any abuse or prejudice toward another because of nationality, race, sexual orientation, gender, educational degrees, culture, or other significant identifiers is offensive to our Maker” (“Choices for Eternity” [worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022], Gospel Library). And importantly, he said: “I grieve that our Black brothers and sisters the world over are enduring the pains of racism and prejudice. Today I call upon our members everywhere to lead out in abandoning attitudes and actions of prejudice. I plead with you to promote respect for all of God’s children” (“Let God Prevail,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 94).
“Prejudice is not consistent with the revealed word of God. Favor or disfavor with God depends on devotion to Him and His commandments, not on the color of a person’s skin or other attributes.
“… This includes prejudice based on race, ethnicity, nationality, tribe, gender, age, disability, socioeconomic status, religious belief or nonbelief, and sexual orientation” (General Handbook, 38.6.14, Gospel Library).


See 1 Nephi 11:25.


“Redeemer of Israel,” Hymns, no. 6.


See Romans 9:23.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"For the Sake of Your Posterity","year":"2023","month":"10"}



For the Sake of Your Posterity

By Elder Carlos A. Godoy
Of the Presidency of the Seventy

Don’t be the weak link in this beautiful chain of faith you started, or you received, as a legacy. Be the strong one.


A few years ago, when I was serving in the South America Northwest Area and living in Peru, I had a beautiful experience that I would like to share with you.
It happened when I was returning home after a busy weekend of assignments. After finally completing the airport immigration process, I found a friendly taxi driver waiting for me from our usual taxi service. He took me to his car, and I sat in the back, ready to relax and enjoy a quiet trip home. After driving a few blocks, the driver received a phone call from his supervisor telling him I took the wrong taxi. A different car was reserved for me, and the supervisor asked him to take me back to the airport if I wanted to change cars. I told him it was not necessary, and we could keep going. After a few minutes of silence, he looked at me through the rearview mirror and asked, “You are a Mormon, aren’t you?”
Well, after that inviting question, I knew my quiet moments were over. I could not resist exploring where his question would take us.
I learned that his name was Omar, his wife’s name was Maria Teresa, and they had two children—Carolina, age 14, and Rodrigo, age 10. Omar had been a member of the Church since he was a child. His family was active, but at some point, his parents stopped going to church. Omar became completely inactive when he was 15. He was then 40 years old.
At that moment I realized I did not take the wrong taxi. It was not a coincidence! I told him who I was and that I was in his taxi because the Lord was calling him back to His fold.
We then talked about the time he and his family were active members of the Church. He had fond memories of sweet family home evening moments and some Primary songs. He then softly sang a few words of “I Am a Child of God.”1
After getting his address, phone number, and permission to share with his bishop, I told him I would find a way to be in the chapel on his first day back to church. We finished our trip from the airport to my home, as well as our little trip to his past, and we went our separate ways.
A few weeks later his bishop called me, telling me Omar was planning to attend church on a certain Sunday. I told him I would be there. That Sunday, Omar was there with his son. His wife and daughter were not yet interested. A few months later, his bishop called me again, this time to tell me that Omar would be baptizing his wife and his two children, and he invited me to be there. Here is the picture of that Sunday where they were confirmed members of the Church.

That same Sunday, I told Omar and his family that if they were prepared, in one year I would be honored to perform their sealing in the Lima Peru Temple. Here is a picture of that memorable moment for all of us, taken one year later.

Why am I sharing this experience with you? I am sharing it for two purposes.
First, to address those good members who for some reason have fallen away from the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. Second, to also address those participating members today who maybe are not being as faithful to their covenants as they should be. In both cases, generations ahead of them are impacted, and blessings and promises that were reserved for their posterities are at risk.
Let’s start with the first scenario, good members who have left the covenant path, as happened with my Peruvian friend Omar. When I asked him why he decided to return, he said it was because he and his wife felt their children would be happier in life with the gospel of Jesus Christ. He felt it was about time to go back to church for the sake of their children.
It is so sad when we come across inactive members or nonmembers of the Church who at one time had the gospel within their families and lost it because of their parents’ or grandparents’ decision to take a break from the Church. That decision could have an impact on their posterity forever!
Their children and grandchildren have been precluded from the protection and the blessings of the gospel of Jesus Christ in their lives. Even more heartbreaking, they have lost the promises of an eternal family which were there one day. The decision of one has impacted a whole chain of descendants. A legacy of faith has been broken.
However, as we know, anything broken can be mended through Jesus Christ. For this reason, please consider this invitation from President Russell M. Nelson: “Now, if you have stepped off the path, may I invite you with all the hope in my heart to please come back. Whatever your concerns, whatever your challenges, there is a place for you in this, the Lord’s Church. You and generations yet unborn will be blessed by your actions now to return to the covenant path.”2
Now, let’s address the second scenario, today’s participating members who maybe are not being as faithful as they should be. Just as yesterday’s decisions impact today’s realities, decisions of today will impact our future and the future of our family members.
President Dallin H. Oaks taught us:
“The restored gospel of Jesus Christ encourages us to think about the future. … It teaches great ideas about the future to guide our actions today.
“In contrast, we all know persons who are concerned only with the present: spend it today, enjoy it today, and take no thought for the future.
“… As we make current decisions, we should always be asking, ‘Where will this lead?’”3 Will our current decisions lead us to joy now and in eternity, or will they lead us to sorrow and tears?
Some may think, “We don’t need to attend church every Sunday,” or “We will pay tithing when things get better,” or “I will not support the Church leaders in this subject.”
“But,” they say, “we know the Church is true, and we will never leave the gospel of Jesus Christ.”
Those with thoughts like these do not realize the negative impact this “lukewarm” type of membership will have on their lives and on the lives of their posterity. The parents may remain active, but the risk of losing their children is high—in this life and in eternity.
Regarding those who will not inherit celestial glory with their families, the Lord says, “These are they who are not valiant in the testimony of Jesus; wherefore, they obtain not the crown over the kingdom of our God.”4 Is that what we want for ourselves or our children? Shouldn’t we be more valiant and less lukewarm for our own sake and for the sake of our posterity?
President M. Russell Ballard also addressed a similar concern:
“For some, Christ’s invitation to believe and remain continues to be hard. … Some disciples struggle to understand a specific Church policy or teaching. Others find concerns in our history or in the imperfections of some members and leaders, past and present. …
“… The decision to ‘walk no more’ with Church members and the Lord’s chosen leaders will have a long-term impact that cannot always be seen right now.”5
What a sad legacy to pass along—and for what reason? Whatever it is, it isn’t enough to ignore the negative spiritual impact it will create for generations ahead.
My dear brothers and sisters, if you are going through one of these two situations I mentioned in my message, please reconsider your course of action. You know there is a plan for us in this life. You know that families can be eternal. Why put yours at risk? Don’t be the weak link in this beautiful chain of faith you started, or you received, as a legacy. Be the strong one. It is your turn to do it, and the Lord can help you.
From the bottom of my heart, I invite you to think about it, to look ahead and evaluate “where this will lead,” and, if necessary, to be valiant enough to reshape your path for the sake of your posterity. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


“I Am a Child of God,” Hymns, no. 301.


Russell M. Nelson, “As We Go Forward Together,” Ensign or Liahona, Apr. 2018, 7; emphasis added.


Dallin H. Oaks, “Where Will This Lead?,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 60; emphasis added.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:79; emphasis added.


M. Russell Ballard, “To Whom Shall We Go?,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 90–91; emphasis added.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Sealing Power","year":"2023","month":"10"}



The Sealing Power

By Elder D. Todd Christofferson
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

The sealing power makes individual salvation and family exaltation universally available to the children of God.


It has been prophesied since at least the days of Isaiah1 that in the latter days, the Lord’s ancient covenant people, the house of Israel, should be “gathered in from their long dispersion, from the isles of the sea, and from the four parts of the earth”2 and restored to “the lands of their inheritance.”3 President Russell M. Nelson has spoken often and powerfully about this gathering, calling it “the most important thing taking place on earth today.”4
What is the purpose of this gathering?
By revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord identified one purpose as the protection of the covenant people. He said, “The gathering together upon the land of Zion, and upon her stakes, [will] be for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth.”5 “Wrath” in this context may be understood as the natural consequences of widespread disobedience to the laws and commandments of God.
Most importantly, the gathering is for the purpose of bringing the blessings of salvation and exaltation to all who will receive them. It is how the covenant promises given to Abraham are realized. The Lord told Abraham that through his seed and priesthood “all the families of the earth [should] be blessed, even with the blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal.”6 President Nelson expressed it this way: “When we embrace the gospel and are baptized, we take upon ourselves the sacred name of Jesus Christ. Baptism is the gate that leads to becoming joint heirs to all the promises given anciently by the Lord to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and their posterity.”7
In 1836, Moses appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple and “committed … the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth.”8 On that same occasion, Elias appeared and “committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed.”9 With this authority, we now carry the gospel of Jesus Christ—the good news of redemption through Him—to all parts and peoples of the earth and gather all who will into the gospel covenant. They become “the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God.”10
On that same occasion in the Kirtland Temple, there was a third heavenly messenger who appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. I speak of the prophet Elijah, and it is the authority and keys he restored that I want to speak about today.11 The power to validate all priesthood ordinances and make them binding both on earth and in heaven—the sealing power—is crucial for gathering and preparing a covenant people on both sides of the veil.
Years earlier, Moroni had made it clear to Joseph Smith that Elijah would bring essential priesthood authority: “I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet.”12 Joseph Smith later explained: “Why send Elijah? Because he holds the keys of the authority to administer in all the ordinances of the Priesthood; and [unless] the authority is given, the ordinances could not be administered in righteousness”13—that is, the ordinances would not be valid in both time and eternity.14
In a teaching now canonized as scripture in the Doctrine and Covenants, the Prophet stated: “It may seem to some to be a very bold doctrine that we talk of—a power which records or binds on earth and binds in heaven. Nevertheless, in all ages of the world, whenever the Lord has given a dispensation of the priesthood to any man by actual revelation, or any set of men, this power has always been given. Hence, whatsoever those men did in authority, in the name of the Lord, and did it truly and faithfully, and kept a proper and faithful record of the same, it became a law on earth and in heaven, and could not be annulled, according to the decrees of the great Jehovah.”15
We tend to think of the sealing authority as applying only to certain temple ordinances, but that authority is necessary to make any ordinance valid and binding beyond death.16 The sealing power confers a seal of legitimacy upon your baptism, for example, so that it is recognized here and in heaven. Ultimately, all priesthood ordinances are performed under the keys of the President of the Church, and as President Joseph Fielding Smith explained, “He [the President of the Church] has given us authority, he has put the sealing power in our priesthood, because he holds those keys.”17
There is another vital purpose in the gathering of Israel that has special meaning when we talk about sealing on earth and in heaven—that is the building and operation of temples. As the Prophet Joseph Smith explained: “What was the object of gathering the … people of God in any age of the world? … The main object was to build unto the Lord a house whereby He could reveal unto His people the ordinances of His house and the glories of His kingdom, and teach the people the way of salvation; for there are certain ordinances and principles that, when they are taught and practiced, must be done in a place or house built for that purpose.”18
The validity that the sealing power gives to priesthood ordinances includes, of course, vicarious ordinances performed in the place designated by the Lord—His temple. Here we see the majesty and sacredness of the sealing power—it makes individual salvation and family exaltation universally available to the children of God wherever and whenever they may have lived on the earth. No other theology or philosophy or authority can match such an all-inclusive opportunity. This sealing power is a perfect manifestation of the justice, mercy, and love of God.
With access to the sealing power, our hearts naturally turn to those who have gone before. The latter-day gathering into the covenant crosses through the veil. In the perfect order of God, the living cannot experience eternal life in its fulness without forging enduring links to “the fathers,” our ancestors. Likewise, the progress of those who are already on the other side, or who may yet cross through the veil of death without the benefit of sealings, is incomplete until vicarious ordinances bind them to us, their descendants, and us to them in the divine order.19 The commitment to aid one another across the veil can be classified as a covenant promise, part of the new and everlasting covenant. In Joseph Smith’s words, we want to “seal up our dead to come forth [with us] in the first resurrection.”20
The highest and holiest manifestation of the sealing power is in the eternal union of a man and a woman in marriage and the linking of humankind through all their generations. Because the authority to officiate in these ordinances is so sacred, the President of the Church personally oversees its delegation to others. President Gordon B. Hinckley said on one occasion, “I have said many times that if nothing else came out of all of the sorrow and travail and pain of the restoration than the sealing power of the holy priesthood to bind together families forever, it would have been worth all that it has cost.”21
Without the sealings that create eternal families and link generations here and hereafter, we would be left in eternity with neither roots nor branches—that is, neither ancestry nor posterity. It is this free-floating, disconnected state of individuals, on the one hand, or connections that defy the marriage and family relations God has appointed,22 on the other hand, that would frustrate the very purpose of the earth’s creation. Were that to become the norm, it would be tantamount to the earth being smitten with a curse or “utterly wasted” at the Lord’s coming.23
We can see why “marriage between a man and a woman is ordained of God and that the family is central to the Creator’s plan for the eternal destiny of His children.”24 At the same time, we recognize that in the imperfect present, this is not the reality or even a realistic possibility for some. But we have hope in Christ. While we wait upon the Lord, President M. Russell Ballard reminds us that “scriptures and latter-day prophets confirm that everyone who is faithful in keeping gospel covenants will have the opportunity for exaltation.”25
Some have experienced unhappy and unhealthy family circumstances and feel little desire for an eternal family association. Elder David A. Bednar made this observation: “To you who have experienced the heartache of a divorce in your family or felt the agony of violated trust, please remember [that God’s pattern for families] begins again with you! One link in the chain of your generations may have been broken, but the other righteous links and what remains of the chain are nonetheless eternally important. You can add strength to your chain and perhaps even help to restore the broken links. That work will be accomplished one by one.”26
In the funeral services for Sister Pat Holland, wife of Elder Jeffrey R. Holland, last July, President Russell M. Nelson taught: “In time, Patricia and Jeffrey will be reunited. They will later be joined by their children and their covenant-keeping posterity to experience the fulness of joy that God has in store for His faithful children. Knowing that, we understand that the most important date in Patricia’s life was not her birth date or her death date. Her most important date was June 7, 1963, when she and Jeff were sealed in the St. George Temple. … Why is this so important? Because the very reason the earth was created was so families could be formed and sealed to each other. Salvation is an individual matter, but exaltation is a family matter. No one can be exalted alone.”
Not long ago, my wife and I joined a dear friend in a sealing room of the Bountiful Utah Temple. I first met this friend when she was a child in Córdoba, Argentina. My missionary companion and I were contacting people in a neighborhood just blocks away from the mission office, and she answered the door when we came to her home. In due time, she and her mother and siblings joined the Church, and they have remained faithful members. She is now a lovely woman, and this day we were in the temple to seal her deceased parents to one another and then seal her to them.
A couple who over the years have become close friends represented her parents at the altar. It was an emotional moment that became even sweeter when our Argentine friend was sealed to her parents. There were just six of us present on a quiet afternoon away from the world, and yet one of the most important things that ever takes place on the earth was happening. I was gratified that my role and association had come full circle from knocking on her door as a young missionary to now, these many years later, performing the sealing ordinances that linked her to her parents and past generations.
This is a scene taking place constantly all over the world in temples. This is the ultimate step in gathering the covenant people. It is the highest privilege of your membership in the Church of Jesus Christ. I promise that as you faithfully seek that privilege, in time or eternity it will surely be yours.
I testify that the sealing power and authority restored to earth through Joseph Smith are real, that what is thereby bound on earth truly is bound in heaven. I testify that President Russell M. Nelson, as President of the Church, is the one man on earth today that by his keys directs the use of this supernal power. I testify that the Atonement of Jesus Christ has made immortality a verity and the possibility of exalted family relationships a reality. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See, for example, Isaiah 49.


2 Nephi 10:8.


2 Nephi 10:7.


Russell M. Nelson and Wendy W. Nelson, “Hope of Israel” (worldwide youth devotional, June 3, 2018), Gospel Library.


Doctrine and Covenants 115:6.


Abraham 2:11.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” Liahona, Oct. 2022, 4; see also Russell M. Nelson, “Children of the Covenant,” Ensign, May 1995, 34. “‘The new and everlasting covenant’ (Doctrine and Covenants 132:6) and the Abrahamic covenant are essentially the same—two ways of phrasing the covenant God made with mortal men and women at different times” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 4).


Doctrine and Covenants 110:11.


Doctrine and Covenants 110:12.


Doctrine and Covenants 84:34.


See Doctrine and Covenants 110:13–16.


Doctrine and Covenants 2:1.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2007), 310.


“The spirit, power, and calling of Elijah is, that ye have power to hold the key of the revelation, ordinances, oracles, powers and endowments of the fullness of the Melchizedek Priesthood and of the kingdom of God on the earth; and to receive, obtain, and perform all the ordinances belonging to the kingdom of God, even unto the turning of the hearts of the fathers unto the children, and the hearts of the children unto the fathers, even those who are in heaven” (Teachings: Joseph Smith, 311).


Doctrine and Covenants 128:9.


See Doctrine and Covenants 132:7.


Joseph Fielding Smith, in Henry B. Eyring, “Families under Covenant,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2012, 63; see also endnote 5 on page 65.


Teachings: Joseph Smith, 416–17.


Without these “welding links” (see Doctrine and Covenants 128:18) between the fathers and the children created via temple ordinances, the Lord states, “ye shall be rejected … with your dead” (Doctrine and Covenants 124:32). No wonder the Prophet warned: “Let me assure you that these are principles in relation to the dead and the living that cannot be lightly passed over, as pertaining to our salvation. For their salvation is necessary and essential to our salvation, as Paul says concerning the fathers—that they without us cannot be made perfect—neither can we without our dead be made perfect” (Doctrine and Covenants 128:15).


Teachings: Joseph Smith, 312.


Teachings of Gordon B. Hinckley (1997), 475–76.


See Doctrine and Covenants 132:8–12.


See Malachi 4:6; Doctrine and Covenants 2:3.


“The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library.


M. Russell Ballard, “Hope in Christ,” Liahona, May 2021, 55.


David A. Bednar, “A Welding Link” (worldwide devotional for young adults, Sept. 10, 2017), Gospel Library.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Love Thy Neighbour","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Love Thy Neighbour

By Elder Ian S. Ardern
Of the Seventy

Compassion is an attribute of Christ. It is born of love for others and knows no boundaries.


This morning, I invite you to join with me on an African journey. You won’t see any lions, zebras, or elephants, but perhaps, by journey’s end, you will see how thousands of members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are responding to Christ’s second great commandment to “love thy neighbour” (Mark 12:31).
Imagine for a moment the rural, red dirt of Africa. You see from the parched and barren earth that rain has not fallen in any measurable quantity for too many years. The few cattle which cross your path are more bones than flesh and are being driven by a blanket-covered Karamojong herdsman who, with sandalled feet, trudges on in hope of finding vegetation and water.
As you navigate the rough and rocky road, you see several groups of beautiful children and wonder why they are not in school. The children smile and wave, and you wave back with a tear and a smile. Ninety-two percent of the youngest children you see on this journey live in food poverty, and your heart groans with anguish.
Ahead, you see a mother carrying a carefully balanced five-gallon (19 L) container of water on her head and another in her hand. She represents one of every two households in this area where women, young and old, walk more than 30 minutes each way, each day, to a source of water for their family. A wave of sorrow washes over you.

Two hours pass and you arrive at a secluded, shady clearing. The meeting place is not a hall or even a tent but rather under a few large trees providing shelter from the sweltering sun. In this place, you notice there is no running water, no electricity, no flush toilets. You look around and know you are amongst a people who love God, and you instantly feel God’s love for them. They have gathered to receive help and hope, and you have arrived to share it.
Such was the journey of Sister Ardern and me, in the company of Sister Camille Johnson, our General Relief Society President, and her husband, Doug, and Sister Sharon Eubank, director of the Church’s Humanitarian Services, as we travelled in Uganda, a country of 47 million people in the Africa Central Area of the Church. On that day, under the shade of the trees, we visited a community health project that is jointly funded by the Church Humanitarian Services, UNICEF, and the Ministry of Health of the Ugandan government. These are trusted organisations, carefully selected to ensure the donated humanitarian funds of the members of the Church are prudently used.

As heart-wrenching as it was to see malnourished children and the effects of tuberculosis, malaria, and incessant diarrhea, there came to each of us an increase of hope for a better tomorrow for those we met.

That hope came, in part, through the kindness of Church members from around the world who donate time and money to the Church humanitarian effort. As I saw the sick and the afflicted being helped and lifted, I bowed my head in gratitude. At that moment, I better understood what was meant by the King of kings, who said:
“Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you … :
“For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in” (Matthew 25:34–35).
Our Saviour’s plea is to “let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven” (Matthew 5:16; see also verses 14–15). In that far-flung corner of the earth, your good works brightened the lives and lightened the load of a people in desperate need, and God was glorified.
On that hot and dusty day, I wished you could have heard their prayers of praise and gratitude to God. They would have me say to you in their native Karamojong, “Alakara.” Thank you.
Our journey reminded me of the parable of the good Samaritan, whose journey took him on a dusty road, not unlike the one I described, a road that went from Jerusalem to Jericho. This ministering Samaritan teaches us what it means to “love thy neighbour.”
He saw “a certain man … [who] fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead” (Luke 10:30). The Samaritan “had compassion on him” (Luke 10:33).
Compassion is an attribute of Christ. It is born of love for others and knows no boundaries. Jesus, the Saviour of the world, is the epitome of compassion. When we read that “Jesus wept” (John 11:35), we are witnesses, as were Mary and Martha, of His compassion, which caused Him first to groan in the spirit and be troubled (see John 11:33). In a Book of Mormon example of Christ’s compassion, Jesus appeared to a multitude and said:
“Have ye any that are lame, or blind, or halt, … or that are deaf, or that are afflicted in any manner? Bring them hither and I will heal them, for I have compassion upon you. …
“… And he did heal them every one” (3 Nephi 17:7, 9).
Despite our every effort, you and I won’t heal everyone, but each of us can be the one who can make a difference for good in the life of someone. It was just one lad, a mere boy, who offered the five loaves and two fishes that fed the five thousand. We may ask of our offering, as Andrew the disciple did of the loaves and fishes, “What are they among so many?” (John 6:9). I assure you: it is sufficient to give or to do what you are able and then to allow Christ to magnify your effort.
On this point, Elder Jeffrey R. Holland invited us, “rich or poor, … to ‘do what we can’ when others are in need.” He then testified, as I do, that God “will help you and guide you in [your] compassionate acts of discipleship” (“Are We Not All Beggars?,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2014, 41).
In that distant land, on that unforgettable day, I stood then and stand now as a witness of the soul-stirring and life-changing compassion of members of the Church, both rich and poor.
The parable of the good Samaritan continues as he “bound up [the man’s] wounds … and took care of him” (Luke 10:34). Our Church humanitarian efforts find us quickly responding to natural disasters and binding up the world’s widening wounds of disease, hunger, infant mortality, malnutrition, displacement, and the often-unseen wounds of discouragement, disappointment, and despair.
The Samaritan then “took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him” (Luke 10:35). As a church we are grateful to collaborate with other “hosts” or organisations such as Catholic Relief Services, UNICEF, and Red Cross/Red Crescent to assist in our humanitarian endeavours. We are equally grateful for your “two pence” or two euros, two pesos, or two shillings that are easing the burden that too many around the world are having to bear. It is unlikely you will know the recipients of your time, dollars, and dimes, but compassion does not require us to know them; it only requires us to love them.
Thank you, President Russell M. Nelson, for reminding us that “when we love God with all our hearts, He turns our hearts to the well-being of others” (“The Second Great Commandment,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 97). I testify that each of us will have an increase of joy, peace, humility, and love as we respond to President Nelson’s call to turn our hearts to the well-being of others and to Joseph Smith’s plea to “feed the hungry, clothe the naked, provide for the widow, dry up the tear of the orphan, [and] comfort the afflicted, whether in this Church, or any other, or in no church at all, wherever [we find] them” (“Editor’s Reply to a Letter from Richard Savary,” Times and Seasons, Mar. 15, 1842, 732).

All those months ago, we found the hungry and the afflicted on a dry and dusty plain and were witnesses to their pleading eyes for help. In our own way, we groaned in the spirit and were troubled (see John 11:33), and yet those feelings were tempered as we saw the compassion of Church members at work as the hungry were fed, the widows were provided for, and the afflicted were comforted and their tears dried up.
May we be forever looking to the well-being of others and show in word and deed that we “are willing to bear one another’s burdens” (Mosiah 18:8), to “bind up the broken-hearted” (Doctrine and Covenants 138:42), and to keep Christ’s second great commandment to “love thy neighbour” (Mark 12:31). In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.

----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Kingdoms of Glory","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Kingdoms of Glory

By President Dallin H. Oaks
First Counselor in the First Presidency

We have a loving Heavenly Father who will see that we receive every blessing and every advantage that our own desires and choices allow.


Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are frequently asked, “How is your church different from other Christian churches?” Among the answers we give is the fulness of the doctrine of Jesus Christ. Foremost among that doctrine is the fact that our Heavenly Father loves all His children so much that He wants us all to live in a kingdom of glory forever. Moreover, He wants us to live with Him and His Son, Jesus Christ, eternally. His plan gives us the teachings and the opportunity to make the choices that will assure us the destiny and the life we choose.


I.

From modern revelation we know that the ultimate destiny of all who live on the earth is not the inadequate idea of heaven for the righteous and the eternal sufferings of hell for the rest. God’s loving plan for His children includes this reality taught by our Savior, Jesus Christ: “In my Father’s house are many mansions.”1
The revealed doctrine of the restored Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches that all the children of God—with exceptions too limited to consider here—will ultimately inherit one of three kingdoms of glory, even the least of which “surpasses all understanding.”2 After a period in which the disobedient suffer for their sins, which suffering prepares them for what is to follow, all will be resurrected and proceed to the Final Judgment of the Lord Jesus Christ. There, our loving Savior, who, we are taught, “glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands,”3 will send all the children of God to one of these kingdoms of glory according to the desires manifested through their choices.
Another unique doctrine and practice of the restored Church is the revealed commandments and covenants that offer all the children of God the sacred privilege of qualifying for the highest degree of glory in the celestial kingdom. That highest destination—exaltation in the celestial kingdom—is the focus of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
From modern revelation, Latter-day Saints have this unique understanding of God’s plan of happiness for His children. That plan begins with our life as spirits before we were born, and it reveals the purpose and conditions of our chosen journey in mortality and our desired destination thereafter.



II.

We know from modern revelation that “all kingdoms have a law given”4 and that the kingdom of glory we receive in the Final Judgment is determined by the laws we choose to follow in our mortal journey. Under that loving plan, there are multiple kingdoms—many mansions—so that all of God’s children will inherit a kingdom of glory whose laws they can comfortably “abide.”
As we describe the nature and requirements of each of the three kingdoms in the Father’s plan, we begin with the highest, which is the focus of the divine commandments and ordinances God has revealed through The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In the “celestial” glory5 there are three levels,6 of which the highest is exaltation in the celestial kingdom. This is the dwelling of those “who have received of his fulness, and of his glory,” wherefore, “they are gods, even the sons [and daughters] of God”7 and “dwell in the presence of God and his Christ forever and ever.”8 Through revelation, God has revealed the eternal laws, ordinances, and covenants that must be observed to develop the godly attributes necessary to realize this divine potential. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints focuses on these because the purpose of this restored Church is to prepare God’s children for salvation in the celestial glory and, more particularly, for exaltation in its highest degree.
God’s plan, founded on eternal truth, requires that exaltation can be attained only through faithfulness to the covenants of an eternal marriage between a man and a woman in the holy temple,9 which marriage will ultimately be available to all the faithful. That is why we teach that “gender is an essential characteristic of individual premortal, mortal, and eternal identity and purpose.”10
A uniquely valuable teaching to help us prepare for exaltation is the 1995 proclamation on the family.11 Its declarations clarify the requirements that prepare us to live with God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ. Those who do not fully understand the Father’s loving plan for His children may consider this family proclamation no more than a changeable statement of policy. In contrast, we affirm that the family proclamation, founded on irrevocable doctrine, defines the mortal family relationship where the most important part of our eternal development can occur.
The Apostle Paul describes the three degrees of glory, likening them to the glories of the sun, moon, and stars.12 He names the highest “celestial” and the second “terrestrial.”13 He does not name the lowest, but a revelation to Joseph Smith added its name: “telestial.”14 Another revelation also describes the nature of the persons to be assigned to each of these kingdoms of glory. Those who do not choose “to abide the law of a celestial kingdom”15 will inherit another kingdom of glory, lesser than the celestial but suited to the laws they have chosen and can comfortably “abide.” That word abide, so common in the scriptures, means a secure placement.16 For example, those in the terrestrial kingdom—comparable to the popular concept of heaven—“are they who receive of the presence of the Son, but not of the fulness of the Father.”17 They were “honorable men of the earth, who were blinded by the craftiness of men,”18 but “not valiant in the testimony of Jesus.”19
The revealing description of those assigned to the lowest of the kingdoms of glory, the telestial, is “he who cannot abide … a terrestrial glory.”20 That describes those who reject the Savior and have observed no divine limits on their behavior. This is the kingdom where the wicked abide, after they have suffered for their sins. These are described in modern revelation as “they who received not the gospel of Christ, neither the testimony of Jesus. …
“These are they who are liars, and sorcerers, and adulterers, and whoremongers, and whosoever loves and makes a lie.”21
Speaking of the three kingdoms of glory with his prophetic vision, President Russell M. Nelson recently wrote: “Mortal lifetime is barely a nanosecond compared with eternity. But what a crucial nanosecond it is! Consider carefully how it works: During this mortal life you get to choose which laws you are willing to obey—those of the celestial kingdom, or the terrestrial, or the telestial—and, therefore, in which kingdom of glory you will live forever. What a plan! It is a plan that completely honors your agency.”22



III.

The Apostle Paul taught that the Lord’s teachings and commandments were given that we may all attain “the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ.”23 That process requires far more than acquiring knowledge. It is not even enough to be convinced of the gospel; we must act so that we are converted by it. In contrast to other preaching, which teaches us to know something, the gospel of Jesus Christ challenges us to become something.
From such teachings we conclude that the Final Judgment is not just an evaluation of a sum total of good and evil acts—what we have done. It is based on the final effect of our acts and thoughts—what we have become. We qualify for eternal life through a process of conversion. As used here, this word of many meanings signifies a profound change of nature. It is not enough for anyone just to go through the motions. The commandments, ordinances, and covenants of the gospel are not a list of deposits required to be made in some heavenly account. The gospel of Jesus Christ is a plan that shows us how to become what our Heavenly Father desires us to become.24



IV.

Because of Jesus Christ and His Atonement, when we fall short in this life, we can repent and rejoin the covenant path that leads to what our Heavenly Father desires for us.
The Book of Mormon teaches that “this life is the time for [us] to prepare to meet God.”25 But that challenging limitation to “this life” was given a hopeful context (at least to some extent for some persons) by what the Lord revealed to President Joseph F. Smith, now recorded in Doctrine and Covenants section 138. “I beheld,” the prophet wrote, “that the faithful elders of this dispensation, when they depart from mortal life, continue their labors in the preaching of the gospel of repentance and redemption, through the sacrifice of the Only Begotten Son of God, among those who are in darkness and under the bondage of sin in the great world of the spirits of the dead.
“The dead who repent will be redeemed, through obedience to the ordinances of the house of God,
“And after they have paid the penalty of their transgressions, and are washed clean, shall receive a reward according to their works, for they are heirs of salvation.”26
In addition, we know that the Millennium, the thousand years that follow the Second Coming of the Savior, will be a time to perform the required ordinances for those who have not received them in their mortal lives.27
There is much we do not know about the three major periods in the plan of salvation and their relationship to one another: (1) the premortal spirit world, (2) mortality, and (3) the next life. But we do know these eternal truths: “Salvation is an individual matter, but exaltation is a family matter.”28 We have a loving Heavenly Father who will see that we receive every blessing and every advantage that our own desires and choices allow. We also know that He will force no one into a sealing relationship against his or her will. The blessings of a sealed relationship are assured for all who keep their covenants but never by forcing a sealed relationship on another person who is unworthy or unwilling.
My dear brothers and sisters, I testify of the truth of these things. I testify of our Lord Jesus Christ, “the author and finisher of our faith,”29 whose Atonement, under the plan of our Father in Heaven, makes it all possible, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


John 14:2.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:89.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:43.


Doctrine and Covenants 88:36.


1 Corinthians 15:40; see also Joseph Smith Translation, 1 Corinthians 15:40 (in 1 Corinthians 15:40, footnote a).


See Doctrine and Covenants 131:1.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:56, 58.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:62.


See 1 Corinthians 11:11; Doctrine and Covenants 132:19–20.


“The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library.


See “The Family: A Proclamation to the World.”


See 1 Corinthians 15:41.


1 Corinthians 15:40.


Joseph Smith Translation, 1 Corinthians 15:40 (in 1 Corinthians 15:40, footnote a).


Doctrine and Covenants 88:22.


See Topical Guide, “Abide”; John 15:4–7, 10.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:77.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:75.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:79.


Doctrine and Covenants 88:23.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:82, 103.


Russell M. Nelson, Heart of the Matter (2023), 45.


Ephesians 4:13.


See Dallin H. Oaks, “The Challenge to Become,” Ensign, Nov. 2000, 32–34; Liahona, Jan. 2001, 40–43.


Alma 34:32.


Doctrine and Covenants 138:57–59.


See Doctrine and Covenants 29:11; Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph F. Smith (1998), 413–14.


Russell M. Nelson, “Come, Follow Me,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 89.


Hebrews 12:2; see also Moroni 6:4.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers

Presented by President Henry B. Eyring
Second Counselor in the First Presidency



Brothers and sisters, it is my privilege to present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote. 
Please express your support in the usual way, wherever you may be. If there are those who oppose, we ask that you contact your stake president.
It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. 
Those in favor may manifest it.
Those opposed, if any, may manifest it. 
It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and M. Russell Ballard as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. 
Those in favor, please signify. 
Any opposed may manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain the following as the members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: M. Russell Ballard, Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, and Ulisses Soares.
Those in favor, please manifest it. 
Any opposed may so indicate. 
It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators. 
All in favor, please manifest it.
Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.
As announced previously, we have extended a call to Alexander Dushku to serve as a General Authority Seventy.
Those in favor, please manifest it. 
Those opposed, by the same sign.
We also note with appreciation the releases of two Area Seventies whose names can be found on the Church’s website.
Those who wish to join in expressing gratitude to these brethren for their excellent service may manifest it. 
It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities and Area Seventies, including two new Area Seventies announced earlier this week whose names are listed on the Church’s website, and the General Officers as presently constituted.
All in favor may do so by the uplifted hand. 
Those opposed, if any.
Thank you, brothers and sisters, for your continued faith and prayers in behalf of the leadership of the Church.
Changes to Area Seventies
The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership session held as part of general conference:
Rogério Boschi and Kirt L. Hodges.
The following Area Seventies were released during a leadership session held as part of general conference:
Henry J. Eyring and Youngjoon Kwon.

----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Tithing: Opening the Windows of Heaven","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Tithing: Opening the Windows of Heaven

By Elder Neil L. Andersen
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

The windows of heaven open in many ways. Trust in the Lord’s timing; the blessings always come.


While I was in South America recently, Brother Roger Parra from Venezuela shared the following experience with me:
“In 2019 Venezuela was shaken by problems that caused a power blackout for five days.
“Chaos and anarchy reigned in the streets, and many desperate people did not have sufficient food.
“Some began looting food businesses, destroying everything in their path.
“As the owner of a small bakery, I was very worried about our business. As a family, we decided to give away all the food in our bakery to people in need.
“Through one very dark night riots were everywhere. My only concern was for the safety of my beloved wife and children.
“At dawn I went to our bakery. Sadly, every nearby food business had been destroyed by looters, but to my great astonishment, our bakery was intact. Nothing had been destroyed. I humbly thanked my Heavenly Father.
“Arriving home, I told my family of God’s blessing and protection.
“They were all so grateful.
“My oldest son, Rogelio, only 12 years old, said, ‘Papa! I know why our store was protected. You and Mama always pay your tithes.’”
Brother Parra concluded: “The words of Malachi came into my mind. ‘I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground’ [Malachi 3:11]. We knelt down and gratefully thanked our Heavenly Father for His miracle.”1



Prove Me Now Herewith

All that we have and all that we are comes from God. As disciples of Christ, we willingly share with those around us.
With all the Lord gives to us, He has asked us to return to Him and His kingdom on earth 10 percent of our increase. He has promised us that as we are honest in our tithes, He will “open … the windows of heaven, and pour … out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.”2 He has promised us that He will protect us from evil.3 These promises are so certain,4 the Lord declares, “Prove me now herewith,”5 a phrase found nowhere else in the scriptures but when quoting Malachi.
The windows of heaven open in many ways. Some are temporal, but many are spiritual. Some are subtle and easy to overlook. Trust in the Lord’s timing; the blessings always come.
We sorrow with those who struggle to have the necessities of life. The Church recently donated 54 million US dollars to provide relief to vulnerable children and mothers across the world.6 And with the offerings from your monthly fast, our good bishops help thousands each week who temporarily need food on their tables, clothes on their backs, and shelter over their heads. The only permanent solution to the poverty of this world is the gospel of Jesus Christ.7



A Matter of Faith

The Apostle Paul warned that the wisdom of men understands the things of men but has difficulty understanding the things of God.8 The world speaks of tithing in terms of our money, but the sacred law of tithing is principally a matter of our faith. Being honest in our tithes is one way we show our willingness to put the Lord first in our lives, above our own cares and interest. I promise you that as you trust in the Lord, the blessings of heaven will follow.
Jesus said to give “unto Caesar the things which are Caesar’s; and unto God the things that are God’s.”9 The resurrected Savior asked the Nephites to write into their record His promises found in Malachi.10 In our day, the Lord reconfirmed the divine law of tithing, declaring: “This shall be the beginning of the tithing of my people. And [they] shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever.”11
The Lord clearly directed how tithing should be disbursed, saying, “Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse,”12 meaning bring the tithes into His restored kingdom, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.13 He directed that the use of these sacred tithes would be prayerfully considered by a council of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, the Presiding Bishopric, “and by mine own voice unto them, saith the Lord.”14



The Lord’s Sacred Funds

These sacred funds do not belong to the leaders of the Church. They belong to the Lord. His servants are painstakingly aware of the sacred nature of their stewardship.
President Gordon B. Hinckley recounted this childhood experience: “When I was a boy I raised a question with my father … concerning the expenditure of Church funds. He reminded me that mine is the God-given obligation to pay my tithes and offerings. When I do so, [my father said,] that which I give is no longer mine. It belongs to the Lord to whom I consecrate it.” His father added: “What the authorities of the Church do with it need not concern [you, Gordon]. They are answerable to the Lord, who will require an accounting at their hands.”15
We deeply feel the weight of being “answerable to the Lord.”



Your Generous Tithes and Offerings

From the generous tithes and offerings you have consecrated to the Lord, last year more than a billion US dollars were used to bless those in need.16
In our momentous responsibility to take the restored gospel across the world, we have more than 71,000 missionaries serving in 414 missions.17 Because of your tithes and offerings, missionaries, regardless of their family financial situation, are able to serve.
Temples are being built across the world in unprecedented numbers. Currently, 177 temples are in operation, 59 are currently under construction or renovation, and 79 more are in planning and design.18 Your tithes are allowing the blessings of the temple to be in places only the Lord could foresee.
There are more than 30,000 congregations housed in thousands of chapels and other facilities in 195 countries and territories.19 Because of your faithful tithes, the Church is being established in faraway places you may never visit among righteous Saints you may never know.
The Church currently sponsors five institutions of higher learning.20 These serve more than 145,000 students. One hundred and ten thousand classes are being taught each week in our seminaries and institutes.21
These blessings and so many more come in large measure from the young and old of every economic circumstance who pay an honest tithe.
The spiritual power of the divine law of tithing is not measured by the amount of money contributed, for both the prosperous and the poor are commanded by the Lord to contribute 10 percent of their income.22 The power comes from placing our trust in the Lord.23
The added abundance of the Lord conveyed through your generous tithes has strengthened the reserves of the Church, providing opportunities to advance the Lord’s work beyond anything we have yet experienced. All is known by the Lord, and in time, we will see His sacred purposes fulfilled.24



Blessings Come in Many Ways

The blessings of tithing come in many ways. In 1998 I accompanied then-Elder Henry B. Eyring to a large Church meeting in the Utah area now known as Silicon Slopes, a community of great innovation in technology. It was a time of growing prosperity, and Elder Eyring cautioned the Saints about comparing what they had with others and wanting more. I will always remember his promise that as they paid an honest tithe, their desire for more material possessions would diminish. Within two years, the technology bubble burst. Many lost their jobs, and companies struggled during this time of financial adjustment. Those who followed the counsel of Elder Eyring were blessed.
His promise reminded me of another experience. I met 12-year-old Charlotte Hlimi near Carcassonne, France, in 1990 while serving as a mission president. The Hlimis were a faithful family living in an apartment with eight children. They had a picture of the Savior and of the prophet on the wall. In the interview for her patriarchal blessing, I asked Charlotte if she paid an honest tithe. She responded, “Yes, President Andersen. My mother has taught me that there are temporal blessings and spiritual blessings that come from paying our tithing. My mother taught me that if we always pay our tithing, we will want for nothing. And President Andersen, we want for nothing.”

In giving me permission to share her story, Charlotte, now 45 and sealed in the temple, commented: “My testimony of tithing was very real at the time, and it is even stronger now. I am deeply grateful for this commandment. As I live it I continue to be abundantly blessed.”25
One day each of us will finish our earthly journey. Twenty-five years ago, just days before my mother-in-law, Martha Williams, died of cancer, she received a small check in the mail. She immediately asked my wife, Kathy, for her checkbook to pay her tithing. As her mother was so weakened that she could scarcely write, Kathy asked if she could write the check for her. Her mother responded, “No, Kathy. I want to do it myself.” And then she quietly added, “I want to be right before the Lord.” One of the final things Kathy did for her mother was to hand her tithing envelope to her bishop.



God’s Important Work

My brothers and sisters, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is “out of obscurity,”26 bringing remarkable blessings across the earth. There will be those who cheer us forward and those who do not. I have thought of the words of the wise Gamaliel, who, upon hearing of the miracles of the Apostles Peter and John, warned the council in Jerusalem:
“Let [these men] alone: for if … this work be of men, it will come to nought:
“But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest … ye be found even to fight against God.”27
You and I are part of God’s important work upon the earth. It will not come to naught but will continue to move across the world, preparing the way for the Savior’s return. I testify to the words of President Russell M. Nelson: “In coming days, we will see the greatest manifestations of the Savior’s power that the world has ever seen. Between now and the time He returns … , He will bestow countless privileges, blessings, and miracles upon the faithful.”28
This is my witness. Jesus is the Christ. This is His holy work. He will come again. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Personal correspondence from Roger Parra, Aug. 4, 2023.


Malachi 3:10.


See Malachi 3:11. Elder Jeffrey R. Holland said: “In my life, for example, I have seen God’s promise fulfilled that He would ‘rebuke the devourer for [my sake]’ [Malachi 3:11]. That blessing of protection against evil has been poured out upon me and on my loved ones beyond any capacity I have to adequately acknowledge. But I believe that divine safety has come, at least in part, because of our determination, individually and as a family, to pay tithing” (“Like a Watered Garden,” Ensign, Nov. 2001, 34; Liahona, Jan. 2002, 38).


“The Lord will open the windows of heaven according to our need, and not according to our greed. If we are paying tithing to get rich, we are doing it for the wrong reason. … The blessing to the giver … may not be always in the form of financial or material benefit” (Teachings of Gordon B. Hinckley [1997], 657).


Malachi 3:10; 3 Nephi 24:10.


See “The Church of Jesus Christ Is Helping Alleviate Global Malnutrition,” Aug. 11, 2023, newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org; see also “How the Church of Jesus Christ and UNICEF Are Keeping Mothers and Children Healthy and Safe,” Aug. 17, 2023, newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


“And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them” (Moses 7:18).


See 1 Corinthians 2:14. The logic of man does not always align with the wisdom of God. In Malachi’s day, many had become distant from the Lord. The Lord implored His covenant people, “Return unto me, and I will return unto you.” What follows this tender invitation is a deeply important question for each of us: “But ye said, Wherein shall we return?” (Malachi 3:7). Or in other words, “What am I to change? How do I draw closer to Thee?” The Lord answers by teaching the importance of tithing, not simply as a financial law but a tangible way to turn the desires of our hearts to Him.
We observed this in our own family. Kathy’s mother joined the Church at age 22. Martha and Bernard Williams attended church for a brief period, but after a move to another state, they became less active. Bernard received a military deployment overseas, and Martha moved home to Tampa, Florida, where she accepted the generous invitation to live with her aunt and uncle, who were opposed to the Church. While living in very humble circumstances, expecting her first child and not attending church, Martha Williams made the decision to start sending her tithing check to the bishop. Later in her life, when asked why, she said that she remembered something the missionaries had taught her about tithing and God’s blessings: “We desperately needed God’s blessings in our lives, and so I began sending our tithing check to the bishop.” Martha and Bernard Williams returned to the Church. Their greatest blessing—six generations have been blessed because of her decision to pay her tithing when she had nothing but faith in God and hope in His promises.


Matthew 22:21.


See 3 Nephi 24.


Doctrine and Covenants 119:3–4. “Tithing is the donation of one-tenth of one’s income to God’s Church (see Doctrine and Covenants 119:3–4; interest is understood to mean income). All members who have income should pay tithing” (General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 34.3.1, Gospel Library).


Malachi 3:10.


“We pay tithing, as the Savior taught, by bringing the tithes ‘into the storehouse’ [Malachi 3:10; 3 Nephi 24:10]. We do this by paying our tithing to our bishop or branch president. We do not pay tithing by contributing to our favorite charities. The contributions we should make to charities come from our own funds, not from the tithes we are commanded to pay to the storehouse of the Lord” (Dallin H. Oaks, “Tithing,” Ensign, May 1994, 35).


Doctrine and Covenants 120:1.


Gordon B. Hinckley, “Rise to a Larger Vision of the Work,” Ensign, May 1990, 96.


See “The 2022 Report on How the Church of Jesus Christ Cared for Those in Need,” Mar. 22, 2023, newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


Received via email from the Missionary Department, Sept. 14, 2023.


See “Temple List,” ChurchofJesusChrist.org/temples/list.


Received via email from Member and Statistical Records, July 28, 2023.


This includes Brigham Young University, Brigham Young University–Idaho, Brigham Young University–Hawaii, Ensign College, and BYU–Pathway Worldwide.


Received via email from Seminaries and Institutes, July 28, 2023.


See General Handbook, 34.3.1.


President Dallin H. Oaks shared this story about trusting in the Lord: “My widowed mother supported her three young children on a [meager] salary. … I asked my mother why she paid so much of her salary as tithing. I have never forgotten her explanation: ‘Dallin, there might be some people who can get along without paying tithing, but we can’t. The Lord has chosen to take your father and leave me to raise you children. I cannot do that without the blessings of the Lord, and I obtain those blessings by paying an honest tithing’” (“Tithing,” 33).


“That through my providence, notwithstanding the tribulation which shall descend upon you, that the church may stand independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world” (Doctrine and Covenants 78:14).


Personal correspondence from Charlotte Hlimi Martin, Aug. 30, 2023.


Doctrine and Covenants 1:30.


Acts 5:38–39.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 95.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Preserving the Voice of the Covenant People in the Rising Generation","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Preserving the Voice of the Covenant People in the Rising Generation

By Brother Jan E. Newman
Second Counselor in the Sunday School General Presidency

One of our most sacred responsibilities is to help our children come to know deeply and specifically that Jesus is the Christ.


One of the most touching moments in the Book of Mormon is the resurrected Savior’s visit to the people at the temple in the land Bountiful. After a day of teaching, healing, and building faith, Jesus directed the people’s attention to the rising generation: “He commanded that their little children should be brought.”1 He prayed for them and blessed them one by one. The experience was so moving that the Savior Himself wept multiple times.
Then, speaking to the multitude, Jesus said:
“Behold your little ones.
“And as they looked … they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven,” ministering to their children.2
I have often thought about this experience. It must have melted every person’s heart! They saw the Savior. They felt Him. They knew Him. He taught them. He blessed them. And He loved them. It’s no wonder that after this sacred event, these children grew up to help establish a society of peace, prosperity, and Christlike love that lasted for generations.3
Wouldn’t it be wonderful if our children could have experiences like that with Jesus Christ—something that would bind their hearts to Him! He invites us, as He invited those parents in the Book of Mormon, to bring our little ones to Him. We can help them know their Savior and Redeemer the way these children did. We can show them how to find the Savior in the scriptures and build their foundations on Him.4
Recently, a good friend taught me something I hadn’t noticed before about the parable of the wise man who built his house upon a rock. According to the account in Luke, as the wise man laid the foundation for his house, he “digged deep.”5 It wasn’t a casual or simple endeavor—it took effort!
To build our lives on the rock of our Redeemer, Jesus Christ, we need to dig deep. We remove anything that is sandy or superfluous in our lives. We keep digging until we find Him. And we teach our children to bind themselves to Him through sacred ordinances and covenants so that when the oppositional storms and floods come, as they surely will, they will have little effect upon them “because of the rock upon which [they] are built.”6
This kind of strength doesn’t just happen. It is not passed on to the next generation like a spiritual inheritance. Each person must dig deep to find the rock.
We learn this lesson from another account in the Book of Mormon. When King Benjamin gave his final address to his people, they gathered as families to hear his words.7 King Benjamin bore powerful witness of Jesus Christ, and the people were deeply moved by his testimony. They declared:
“The Spirit … has wrought a mighty change in us, or in our hearts. …
“And we are willing to enter into a covenant with our God to do his will … all the remainder of our days.”8
One might expect that little children with such deeply converted parents would eventually become converted and make covenants themselves. And yet, for some reason not mentioned in the record, the covenant made by the parents did not get traction with some of their children. Several years later “there were many of the rising generation that could not understand the words of king Benjamin, being little children at the time he spake unto his people; and they did not believe the tradition of their fathers.
“They did not believe what had been said concerning the resurrection of the dead, neither did they believe concerning the coming of Christ. …
“And they would not be baptized; neither would they join the church. And they were a separate people as to their faith.”9
What a sobering thought! For the rising generation, it’s not enough for faith in Jesus Christ to be “the tradition of their fathers.” They need to own faith in Christ for themselves. As the covenant people of God, how can we instill within the hearts of our children a desire to make and keep covenants with Him?
We can start by following the example of Nephi: “We talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ, and we write according to our prophecies, that our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.”10 Nephi’s words imply a constant, ongoing effort to teach our children about Christ. We can ensure that the voice of the covenant people is not silent in the ears of the rising generation and that Jesus is not a Sunday-only topic.11
The voice of the covenant people is found in our own words of testimony. It is found in the words of living prophets. And it is preserved powerfully in the scriptures. It is there that our children will come to know Jesus and find answers to their questions. It is there they will learn for themselves the doctrine of Christ. It is there they will find hope. This will prepare them for a lifetime of seeking truth and living on the covenant path.
I love this counsel from President Russell M. Nelson:
“Where can we go to hear Him?
“We can go to the scriptures. They teach us about Jesus Christ and His gospel, the magnitude of His Atonement, and our Father’s great plan of happiness and redemption. Daily immersion in the word of God is crucial for spiritual survival, especially in these days of increasing upheaval. As we feast on the words of Christ daily, the words of Christ will tell us how to respond to difficulties we never thought we would face.”12
So what does it look like to feast on the words of Christ and hear Him? Well, it looks like whatever works best for you! It might be gathering with your family to talk about the things the Holy Ghost taught you in your scripture study using Come, Follow Me. It might be gathering each day with your children to read a few verses from the scriptures and then looking for opportunities to discuss what you learned as you spend time together. Just find what works for you and your family; then try to do a little better each day.
Consider this insight from Teaching in the Savior’s Way: “Taken individually, a single home evening, scripture study session, or gospel conversation may not seem like it is accomplishing much. But the accumulation of small, simple efforts, repeated consistently over time, can be more powerful and strengthening than an occasional monumental moment or landmark lesson. … So don’t give up, and don’t worry about accomplishing something grand every time. Just be consistent in your efforts.”13
One of our most sacred responsibilities is to help our children come to know deeply and specifically that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, their personal Savior and Redeemer, who stands at the head of His Church! We cannot allow our covenant voice to become muted or silent when it comes to Him.
You may feel a bit inadequate in this role, but you should never feel alone. For example, ward councils are authorized to organize teacher council meetings for parents. In these quarterly meetings, parents can gather to learn from each other’s experiences, discuss how they are strengthening their families, and learn key principles of Christlike teaching. This meeting should be held in the second hour of church.14 It is led by a ward member selected by the bishop and follows the format of regular teacher council meetings, using Teaching in the Savior’s Way as the primary resource.15 Bishops, if your ward is not currently holding teacher council meetings for parents, work with your Sunday School president and ward council to organize yourselves.16
My dear friends in Christ, you are doing much better than you think. Just keep working at it. Your children are watching, listening, and learning. As you teach them, you will come to know their true nature as beloved sons and daughters of God. They may forget the Savior for a season, but I promise you He will never forget them! Those moments when the Holy Ghost speaks to them will persist in their hearts and minds. And one day your children will echo the testimony of Enos: I know my parents are just, “for [they] taught me … in the nurture and admonition of the Lord—and blessed be the name of my God for it.”17
Let us accept the Savior’s invitation and bring our children to Him. As we do so, they will see Him. They will feel Him. They will know Him. He will teach them. He will bless them. And, oh, how He will love them. And, oh, how I love Him. In His holy name, Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


3 Nephi 17:11.


3 Nephi 17:23–24; see also 3 Nephi 17:11–22.


See 4 Nephi 1:1–22.


See Luke 6:47–49; Helaman 5:12.


Luke 6:48.


Helaman 5:12.


See Mosiah 2:5.


Mosiah 5:2, 5. Note that “there was not one soul, except it were little children, but who had entered into the covenant and had taken upon them the name of Christ” (Mosiah 6:2).


Mosiah 26:1–2, 4.


2 Nephi 25:26.


“There are many things to teach about in the restored gospel of Jesus Christ—principles, commandments, prophecies, and scripture stories. But all of these are branches of the same tree, for they all have one purpose: to help all people come unto Christ and be perfected in Him (see Jarom 1:11; Moroni 10:32). So no matter what you are teaching, remember that you are really teaching about Jesus Christ and how to become like Him” (Teaching in the Savior’s Way: For All Who Teach in the Home and in the Church [2022], 6).


Russell M. Nelson, “Hear Him,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2020, 89.


Teaching in the Savior’s Way, 31.


Special accommodations can be made for parents who teach in Primary, such as meeting during the 20-minute Primary singing time or holding a separate meeting at another time (see General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 17.4, Gospel Library).


Members and leaders can order Teaching in the Savior’s Way through Distribution Services. It is also available digitally in the Gospel Library.


See General Handbook, 13.5.


Enos 1:1. Remember that among the rising generation of unbelievers in the Book of Mormon were Alma the Younger and the sons of Mosiah. When Alma the Younger finally recognized his need to change his life, he remembered what his father had taught about Jesus Christ—teachings that Alma had apparently ignored in the past. But the memory of it remained, and that memory saved Alma spiritually (see Alma 36:17–20).



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Power of Jesus Christ in Our Lives Every Day","year":"2023","month":"10"}



The Power of Jesus Christ in Our Lives Every Day

By Elder Joaquin E. Costa
Of the Seventy

The source of our strength is faith in Jesus Christ as we intentionally seek to come unto Him each and every day.


Dear brothers and sisters, this is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. What a joy it is to be gathered as His Church. I am thankful that President Russell M. Nelson has reminded us to use the correct name of the Lord’s Church often so that we remember whose Church this is and whose teachings we follow.
President Nelson has stated: “In coming days, we will see the greatest manifestations of the Savior’s power that the world has ever seen. … He will bestow countless privileges, blessings, and miracles upon the faithful.”1
One of the greatest privileges for me and my wife, Renee, is to meet with the Saints where we serve. We hear their stories, we witness their losses, we share their grief, and we rejoice with their success. We have witnessed many of the blessings and miracles that the Savior has bestowed upon the faithful. We have met people who have gone through the impossible, who have suffered the unthinkable.


We have seen the manifestation of the Savior’s power in a widow who lost her husband while they were on the Lord’s errand in Bolivia.2 We have seen it in a young woman in Argentina who fell under a train and lost her leg, just because someone wanted to steal her cell phone.3 And in her single father, who now must pick up the pieces and strengthen his daughter after such an unexplainable act of cruelty. We have seen it in the families that lost their homes and every possession during fires in Chile just two days before Christmas in 2022.4 We have seen it in those who suffer after a traumatic divorce and in those who are innocent victims of abuse.

What gives them the power to go through hard things? What gives an extra layer of strength to go on when everything seems lost?
I have found that the source of that strength is faith in Jesus Christ as we intentionally seek to come unto Him each and every day.
The prophet Jacob taught, “And he cometh into the world that he may save all men if they will hearken unto his voice; for behold, he suffereth the pains of all men, yea, the pains of every living creature, both men, women, and children, who belong to the family of Adam.”5
At times, having faith in Jesus Christ may seem like something impossible, almost unattainable. We may think that coming unto Christ requires a strength, power, and perfection we don’t have, and we just can’t find the energy to do it all. But what I have learned from all these people is that faith in Jesus Christ is what gives us the energy to begin the journey. Sometimes we may think, “I need to fix my life before I come to Jesus,” but the truth is that we come to Jesus to fix our lives through Him.
We don’t come to Jesus because we are perfect. We come to Him because we are flawed and in Him we can “be perfected.”6
How do we begin exercising a little bit of faith every day? For me it begins in the morning: When I wake up, instead of looking at my phone, I say a prayer. Even a simple prayer. Then I read a scripture. This helps me with my weekly covenant that I make as I partake of the sacrament to “always remember him.”7 When I begin my day with a prayer and a scripture, I can “remember Him” when I do look at my phone. I can “remember Him” when I face problems and conflicts, and I try to face them like Jesus would.
When I “remember Him,” I feel a desire to change, to repent. I find the source of energy to keep my covenants, and I feel the influence of the Holy Ghost in my life “and keep his commandments which he has given [me]; that [I] may always have his Spirit.”8 It helps me to endure to the end.9 Or at least to the end of the day! And in those days that I fail to remember Him all day, He is still there, loving me and telling me, “It’s OK; you can try again tomorrow.”
Although we are imperfect at remembering Him, our loving Heavenly Father never fails to remember us.
One of the mistakes we often make is to think that keeping covenants, or the promises we make to God, is somehow a transaction we make with Him: I obey, and He protects me from anything bad ever happening to me. I pay my tithing, and I will never lose my job or the fire will not burn my house. But then when things don’t go as we expected, we cry unto the Lord, “Carest thou not that I perish?”10
Our covenants are not merely transactional; they are transformational.11 Through my covenants I receive sanctifying, strengthening power of Jesus Christ, which allows me to become a new person, to forgive what seems unforgivable, to overcome the impossible. Intentionally remembering Jesus Christ always is powerful; it gives me added strength to “keep his commandments which he has given [me].”12 It helps me to be nicer, to smile for no reason, to be a peacemaker,13 to avoid conflict, to let God prevail in my life.14
When our pain or the pain of someone we love is so much that we can’t bear it, remembering Jesus Christ and coming unto Him can lighten the burden, soften the heart, and ease the pain. This is the power that enabled a father beyond his natural capacity to sustain his daughter through the physical and emotional pain of losing her leg.

When Elder Soares visited Argentina last June and asked Flavia about her tragic accident, she faithfully replied, “I experienced turmoil, bitterness, anger, and hate when [this happened]. Something that helped me was not to ask, ‘why me?’ but ‘what for?’ … This was something that brought me closer to others and the Lord. … Instead of distancing myself from Him, I had to cling to Him.”15
President Nelson taught: “The reward for keeping covenants with God is heavenly power—power that strengthens us to withstand our trials, temptations, and heartaches better. … Thus, covenant keepers are entitled to a special kind of rest.”16 This is the kind of rest and peace I saw in the eyes of the widow, despite the heartache she felt of missing her husband every day.

The New Testament tells of a time when Jesus and His disciples were on a ship:
“And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship. …
“And he was … asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?
“And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. …
“And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?”17
I have always been intrigued by this story. Did the Lord expect them to use their faith to calm the storm? To rebuke the winds? Faith in Jesus Christ is the feeling of peace to withstand the storm, knowing that we will not perish because He is in the ship with us.
This is the kind of faith we saw when we visited the families after the fires in Chile. Their houses had been burned to the ground; they had lost everything. Yet as we were walking in what used to be their homes and they were telling us about their experiences, we felt that we were standing on holy ground. One sister said to my wife, “When I saw that nearby houses were burning, I had the impression that our house was going to be burned, that we were going to lose everything. Instead of desperation, I experienced a sense of indescribable peace. Somehow, I felt everything was going to be OK.” Trusting God and keeping our covenants with Him bring power to our weakness and comfort to our grief.
I am grateful for the opportunity that Renee and I had to meet some of these extraordinary Saints, for their many examples of faith, strength, and perseverance. For stories of heartbreak and disappointment that will never make the front page of a newspaper or ever go viral. For the pictures that are not taken of tears shed and prayers offered after a loss or a traumatic divorce; for the posts that are never made of the fear, the sorrow, and the pain that become bearable thanks to faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement. These people strengthen my own faith, and for that I am deeply grateful.
I know this is the Church of Jesus Christ. I know that He stands ready to endow us with His power if we come to Him each and every day. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 95.


See “Mission President Passes Away following Battle with COVID-19,” July 13, 2021, newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See “Elder Soares Tells Global Faith Leaders That Human Dignity Is a Constant in a Changing World,” June 9, 2023, newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See “Church Responds as Forest Fires Burn in Chile,” Feb. 17, 2023, thechurchnews.com.


2 Nephi 9:21.


Moroni 10:32.


Doctrine and Covenants 20:79.


Doctrine and Covenants 20:77.


The doctrine of Christ as found in 3 Nephi 11:33; 27:16, 20.


See Mark 4:38.


See D. Todd Christofferson, “Born Again,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2008, 77; 2 Corinthians 5:17.


Doctrine and Covenants 20:77.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 98–101.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 92–95.


Flavia Cruzado, in “Elder Soares Tells Global Faith Leaders That Human Dignity Is a Constant in a Changing World,” newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” 96.


Mark 4:37–40.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Promptings of the Spirit","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Promptings of the Spirit

By Elder Gary E. Stevenson
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

The constant companionship of the Holy Ghost is one of the greatest spiritual gifts Latter-day Saints enjoy.




Introduction

Recently, the eyes of the sporting world focused on the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup, hosted by Australia and New Zealand. World-class athletes narrowed from more than 200 national teams from around the globe demonstrated their grit, dedication, talent, and athleticism as they competed for the soccer world’s highest honor.
We marvel at performers in numerous sports and other disciplines who achieve the highest level of their art. We speak of their God-given talents or gifts. This includes those gifted in dance, gymnastics, music, art, drama, mathematics, science, and more. Each such person demonstrates God-given gifts that are then refined and honed by a lifetime of hard work, study, and practice. God-given gifts make gifted people.



Exercising Spiritual Gifts

Looking through a gospel lens, God endows His children with many spiritual gifts, making them spiritually gifted people. Covenant-keeping members of the Church are bestowed with gifts of the Spirit, which include the gift of a testimony of Jesus Christ as our Savior, the gift of the Holy Ghost, the gift of faith to heal and be healed, the gift of discernment, the gift of receiving miracles, and the gifts of wisdom and knowledge.1 The Lord invites us to earnestly seek the best gifts, even spiritual gifts. He gives spiritual gifts to bless us and to use in blessing others.2
Returning to our analogy of gifted performers, it is important to remember that a gift alone does not a master make. Extraordinary natural talent notwithstanding, it is through painstaking and laborious practice and effort that performers refine and hone their craft to reach their highest level of artistry. Even those gifts received and unwrapped are often accompanied by the dreaded language “some assembly required.”
Likewise, I have observed a learning curve associated with spiritual gifts. Exercising spiritual gifts requires spiritual exercise. “Having the guidance of the Holy Ghost in your life requires spiritual work. This work includes fervent prayer and consistent scripture study. It also includes keeping your covenants and God’s commandments. … It includes worthily partaking of the sacrament each week.”3
What are the fruits of exercising spiritual gifts? They include promptings from the Spirit that help us face our daily needs and show us what to do and say and blessings of peace and comfort. As we listen and act on spiritual promptings, the Holy Ghost magnifies our abilities and capacities to far exceed what we can do on our own. These precious spiritual gifts will help us in every aspect of our lives.4
The constant companionship of the Holy Ghost is one of the greatest spiritual gifts Latter-day Saints enjoy.
How important is this gift? President Russell M. Nelson answered this question categorically when he stated that “in coming days, it will not be possible to survive spiritually without the guiding, directing, comforting, and constant influence of the Holy Ghost.”5



How to Invite and Recognize the Promptings of the Spirit

Over the course of my ministry, I have found a universal longing by everyone to know how to invite and recognize the promptings of the Holy Ghost. Promptings of the Spirit are very personal and come in different ways. We are, however, blessed to have words of prophets, both ancient and modern, give us valuable insights about how to receive direction from the Spirit.
Let me offer four guiding principles that may be of assistance to you in inviting and recognizing the promptings of the Spirit.


Stand in Holy Places

The first is to stand in holy places.6 I recently participated in the Tokyo Japan Temple open house. The response to formal invitations sent to both media and VIP guests far exceeded expectations. Hundreds joined in these guided temple tours. Guests were deeply touched by the beauty of the temple, including patterns and motifs with deep, traditional Japanese connections. More poignant yet was the reverent and respectful reaction elicited from guests as ancestral ordinances were described in rooms where they would occur. But most heartwarming were stirrings of the Spirit.
One such moment with a prominent government official remains etched in my mind. Following a moment of meditative silence in the celestial room, emotional and deeply touched he whispered in my ear, “Even the air that I breathe in this room feels different.” I recognized he was trying to describe the presence of the Holy Spirit, which, indeed, dwells in sacred spaces. If you hope to feel the Spirit, be in a place where the Spirit can easily dwell.
Our temples and homes are the most sacred of these dedicated spaces. In them we more easily invite and recognize the Spirit. Other holy places include meetinghouses, seminary buildings and institutes, and Church history sites and visitors’ centers. Stand in holy places.



Stand with Holy People

Second, stand with holy people. I’ll describe the second guiding principle with another memory.
I will never forget participating in a devotional held in a popular sports arena. Usually, this arena was filled with raucous fans cheering their home team and perhaps even jeering their opponent. But on this night, the atmosphere was quite different. The arena was filled with thousands of young people assembled to honor and commemorate the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Their reverent, quiet tone; gratitude; and prayerful hearts filled the arena with the presence of the Holy Spirit. I could literally see it in their faces. It was the gift of the Holy Ghost in action, affirming the testimonies being borne of Joseph Smith and the Restoration of the gospel.
The Spirit cannot be restrained from attending a gathering of holy people. If you hope to feel the Spirit, be with people with whom the Spirit can easily dwell. The Savior said it this way: “For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.”7 For young people, consider your gatherings of holy people: quorums and classes, FSY and seminary, ward and stake activities—even ward choirs. Choose to be with people and go to places where righteousness is found. Find your strength in numbers. Find good friends. Be good friends. Support one another wherever you are. Stand with holy people.



Testify of Holy Truths

Third, testify of holy truths as often as you can. The Comforter always shares His voice when we testify with our voice. The Spirit bears witness to the speaker and listener alike.
I remember once taking a 45-minute taxi ride in New York City. Having had a warm gospel conversation with the driver for the duration of my ride to the airport, I paid her and prepared to exit the taxi. Then I realized I had not offered a testimony of what I had shared. Pausing, I shared a simple, short testimony, inviting the Spirit and bringing tears to both our eyes.
As you seek and take opportunities to share your testimony with others, you will create moments to recognize the Spirit for yourself.



Listen to the Holy Spirit

The final principle is to listen to the Holy Spirit. He can be our constant companion, but He speaks in subtle, quiet tones. The prophet Elijah found that the voice of the Lord was not in the wind, the earthquake, or the fire but was “a still small voice.”8 It is “not a voice of thunder” but rather “a still voice of perfect mildness, as if it had been a whisper,” and yet it can “pierce even to the very soul.”9
President Boyd K. Packer stated: “The Spirit does not get our attention by shouting or shaking us with a heavy hand. Rather it whispers. It caresses so gently that if we are preoccupied we may not feel it at all.”10 I have observed that sometimes His voice is so subtle, or I am so preoccupied, that a loved one captures it for me. Many have been the times when promptings of the Holy Ghost have come to me through my wife, Lesa. Righteous parents or leaders may also receive inspired guidance for you.
The noise, clamor, and contention prevalent in the world may overpower still, quiet impressions of the Holy Spirit. Find a quiet place, a holy space where you can seek to receive direction from the Spirit.




Some Words of Caution

As you consider these principles to invite and recognize the Spirit, consider the following words of cautionary guidance.11
Confirm your spiritual impressions. For example, impressions from the Spirit will align with the scriptures and the teachings of the living prophets.
Be certain that the feelings you receive are consistent with your assignment. Unless you are called by proper authority, impressions from the Spirit are not given for you to counsel or correct others.
Spiritual matters cannot be forced. You can cultivate an attitude and an environment that invite the Spirit, and you can prepare yourself, but you cannot dictate how or when inspiration comes. Be patient and trust that you will receive what you need when the time is right.
Use your own best judgment. Sometimes we want to be led by the Spirit in all things. However, often the Lord wants us to use our God-given intelligence and act in ways that are consistent with our best understanding. President Dallin H. Oaks taught:
“A desire to be led by the Lord is a strength, but it needs to be accompanied by an understanding that our Heavenly Father leaves many decisions for our personal choices. … Persons who try to shift all decision making to the Lord and plead for revelation in every choice will soon find circumstances in which they pray for guidance and don’t receive it. …
“We should study things out in our minds. … Then we should pray for guidance and act upon it. … If we do not receive guidance, we should act upon our best judgment.”12



Conclusion with an Invitation

In conclusion, Latter-day Saints should be gifted, covenant-keeping people. Nonetheless, it remains for each of us to seek to exercise our spiritual gifts and then to invite and learn to recognize promptings of the Spirit. Four guiding principles to assist us in this crucial spiritual endeavor are:


Stand in holy places.


Stand with holy people.


Testify of holy truths.


Listen to the Holy Spirit.


Your ability to invite and recognize the promptings of the Spirit will develop a step at a time. “Becoming more attuned to the language of the Spirit is like learning another language. It is a gradual process that requires diligent, patient effort.”13
Returning to where we began, please remember that as Latter-day Saints you are gifted. Picture this familiar fast Sunday scene, recently described to me. A young child, standing on a stool, was barely visible over the pulpit. Her father stood next to her, offering encouragement and assisting with soft whispers to her ear as she proudly shared, “I am a child of God.”
The next testimony that followed came from a young adult who began with a nervous quip: “I wish I had someone whispering in my ear like that.” Then she had a flash of inspiration and testified, “I do have someone whispering in my ear like that—the Holy Ghost!”
I close with an invitation especially for all youth! Many of you start your day by standing in front of a mirror. Tomorrow, this week, this year, always, pause as you look at yourself in the mirror. Think to yourself, or say aloud if you like, “Wow, look at me! I am awesome! I am a child of God! He knows me! He loves me! I am gifted—gifted with the Holy Ghost as my constant companion!”
I add my testimony to you, gifted Latter-day Saints, of God the Father, Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, who bears testimony of Them. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Doctrine and Covenants 46:13–25.


See Doctrine and Covenants 46:8–9, 26; Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ (2023), 103.


Preach My Gospel, 101.


See Preach My Gospel, 101.


Russell M. Nelson, “Revelation for the Church, Revelation for Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 96.


See Doctrine and Covenants 87:8.


Matthew 18:20.


1 Kings 19:12.


Helaman 5:30.


Boyd K. Packer, “The Candle of the Lord,” Ensign, Jan. 1983, 53.


Much of the content in this section is taken from chapter 4 of Preach My Gospel.


Dallin H. Oaks, “Our Strengths Can Become Our Downfall,” Ensign, Oct. 1994, 13–14.


Preach My Gospel, 106.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Do You Want to Be Happy?","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Do You Want to Be Happy?

By Elder Yoon Hwan Choi
Of the Seventy

Stay on the covenant path. Your life will be easier, happier, and filled with joy.


Do you want to be happy? What makes you unhappy? President Russell M. Nelson said: “If you want to be miserable, break the commandments—and never repent. If you want joy, stay on the covenant path.”1 Isn’t it simple to be happy? Just make covenants and keep them in your lives. Let us review some things that can help us to stay on the covenant path and make us happy.


1. What Is the Covenant Path?

According to Elder Dale G. Renlund, “the term covenant path refers to a series of covenants whereby we come to Christ and connect to Him. Through this covenant bond, we have access to His eternal power. The path begins with faith in Jesus Christ and repentance, followed by baptism and receiving the Holy Ghost.”2 We renew these covenants every time we partake of the sacrament.
Beginning with the baptismal covenant, we make more covenants throughout our lives. Again, Elder Renlund said: “The covenant path leads to the ordinances of the temple, such as the temple endowment. The endowment is God’s gift of sacred covenants that connect us more fully to Him.”3



2. Are You on the Covenant Path?

Sometimes when we make covenants, we fail to keep them. When this happens, how can you return to the covenant path? Let me share some examples of returning to the covenant path.
A little over a month ago, I received a message from a returned missionary who had served with us. He said: “The last while has been tough. Battling anxiety and depression every day has been weighing me down, and it is very difficult. I feel alone and just miserable. I have been praying for the guidance of our Heavenly Father for peace and comfort in what I can do to battle the hardship. … While I was praying, I felt the prompting of the Spirit tell me that I needed to be paying my tithing in full. … I felt the Spirit so strongly, and I immediately felt the urge to do so. With the desire to do so, I felt the prompting that ‘if you pay your tithing, everything will be OK.’ I am still struggling to find peace, but I do have a testimony in our Savior and that through my obedience, I can feel and find the peace I am looking for in my heart and mind. I have recently decided to come back to the Church and to seek the Spirit in all that I do.”
Now he is doing very well. You also may ask Heavenly Father for peace, but the answer may be different than what you anticipate it will be. As long as you seek to know of the Savior and pray to Heavenly Father, He will give you a customized answer for you.
President Thomas S. Monson taught:
“The greatest lesson we can learn in mortality is that when God speaks and we obey, we will always be right.”4
“When we keep the commandments, our lives will be happier, more fulfilling, and less complicated. Our challenges and problems will be easier to bear, and we will receive [God’s] promised blessings.”5
When I was called to be a bishop, it was during the most difficult time of my life. I was a young father in my early 30s, but I was in trouble financially because of family challenges. I couldn’t find any solution, and I thought the challenges would never end. I was exhausted financially and emotionally. I started doubting my spiritual strength as well. It was at that difficult time that my stake president extended the calling to me. I accepted the call anyway, although it was hard.
My wife also had an interview with the stake president, but she could not say yes, and she did not say no either but kept shedding tears. She cried for the whole week, asking Heavenly Father, “Why now?” and “Do You really know each individual?” She didn’t get an answer, but I was sustained as bishop on the following Sunday. She did not ask Heavenly Father those questions anymore but supported me in my calling for six years.
On the Sunday when I was released, my wife heard a voice while she was receiving the sacrament. The voice whispered to her, “Because it was too hard for you to walk, I called him as a bishop in order to hold you and walk for you.” Looking back at the past six years, she realized that all of the many challenges that seemed to be endless had now been resolved along the way.
We learned that when we think it is not a good time for us to receive a calling, it may be the time we need that calling the most. Whenever the Lord asks us to serve in any calling, whether it is a lighter or heavier calling, He sees our needs. He provides the strength we need and has blessings ready to be poured out upon us as we faithfully serve.
There are many other things that distract us from staying on the covenant path. No matter what it is, it is never too late to turn our hearts to Heavenly Father for help. Elder Paul V. Johnson taught us: “When we follow Satan, we give him power. When we follow God, He gives us power.”6
King Benjamin in the Book of Mormon testifies: “I would desire that ye should consider on the blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments of God. For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end they are received into heaven, that thereby they may dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness.”7



3. How Can Keeping Covenants with God Make You Happy?

My wife says that our marriage yokes us together, and because of that she can do things she couldn’t do before. For example, ever since she was young, she has had a hard time going out in the dark, but it is not hard anymore because I go with her. She is short and cannot reach to the high shelves unless she uses a chair or ladder, but I can reach the things from high shelves for her because I am taller than her. Taking our Savior’s yoke upon us is like that. As we yoke ourselves to Him, we can do things we couldn’t do on our own because He can do the things we cannot do for ourselves.
Elder David A. Bednar said: “Making and keeping sacred covenants yokes us to and with the Lord Jesus Christ. In essence, the Savior is beckoning us to rely upon and pull together with Him, even though our best efforts are not equal to and cannot be compared with His. As we trust in and pull our load with Him during the journey of mortality, truly His yoke is easy and His burden is light.”8
President Nelson also taught:
“Yoking yourself with the Savior means you have access to His strength and redeeming power.”9
“The reward for keeping covenants with God is heavenly power—power that strengthens us to withstand our trials, temptations, and heartaches better. This power eases our way. Those who live the higher laws of Jesus Christ have access to His higher power.”10
“Keeping covenants actually makes life easier! Each person who makes covenants in baptismal fonts and in temples—and keeps them—has increased access to the power of Jesus Christ.”11
My dear brothers and sisters, do you want to be happy? Stay on the covenant path. Your life will be easier, happier, and filled with joy. Our Savior is inviting us, “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.”12 He is the living Christ. He carries our burdens and makes our life easier. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Russell M. Nelson, in Sarah Jane Weaver, “In Orlando, President Nelson Shares 7 Truths That Have the Power to Change Lives,” Church News, June 9, 2019, thechurchnews.com.


Dale G. Renlund, “Accessing God’s Power through Covenants,” Liahona, May 2023, 36.


Dale G. Renlund, “Accessing God’s Power through Covenants,” 36.


Thomas S. Monson, “Models to Follow,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2002, 61.


Thomas S. Monson, “Keep the Commandments,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2015, 83.


Paul V. Johnson, “Be Perfected in Him,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 40.


Mosiah 2:41.


David A. Bednar, “Bear Up Their Burdens with Ease,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2014, 88.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 97.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” 96.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” 96.


Matthew 11:28.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"God Knows and Loves You","year":"2023","month":"10"}



God Knows and Loves You

By Elder Alan T. Phillips
Of the Seventy

God’s plan of happiness is all about you. You are His precious child and of great worth.


Six years ago our family was traveling at night just outside the city of Oxford. As is often the case with young children, we needed to stop, so we found a service station with an array of shops and restaurants. With precision, we filed out of the car, visited the services, and filed back in, resuming our journey.
Fifteen minutes later our eldest son asked a significant question: “Where is Jasper?” Jasper sits on his own at the back of the car. We assumed he had fallen asleep or was hiding or playing a trick on us.
As his brother inspected the back of the car more closely, we discovered our five-year-old son was not there. Our hearts filled with dread. As we made our way back to the service station, we pleaded with Heavenly Father that Jasper would be kept safe. We called the police and informed them of the situation.
When we anxiously arrived, more than 40 minutes later, we found two police vehicles in the car park, lights flashing. Inside one of them was Jasper, playing with the buttons. I will never forget the joy we felt in being reunited with him.
Many of the Savior’s parabolic teachings focus on gathering, restoring, or striving to find that which has been scattered or lost. Among these are the parables of the lost sheep, the lost coin, and the lost son.1
As this incident with Jasper has played in my mind over the years, I have reflected on the divine identity and importance of God’s children, the redemptive power of Jesus Christ, and the perfect love of a Father in Heaven, who knows you and me. I hope to bear witness of these truths today.


I. Children of God

Life is challenging. Many people feel overwhelmed, alone, isolated, or exhausted. When things are difficult, we may feel that we have wandered or fallen behind. Knowing that we are all children of God and members of His eternal family will restore a sense of belonging and purpose.2
President M. Russell Ballard shared: “There is one important identity we all share now and forever. … That is that you are and have always been a son or daughter of God. … Understanding this truth—really understanding it and embracing it—is life-changing.”3
Do not misunderstand or devalue how important you are to your Father in Heaven. You are not an accidental by-product of nature, a cosmic orphan, or the result of matter plus time plus chance. Where there is design, there is a designer.
Your life has meaning and purpose. The ongoing Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ brings light and understanding regarding your divine identity. You are a beloved child of Heavenly Father. You are the subject matter of all those parables and teachings. God loves you so much that He sent His Son to heal, rescue, and redeem you.4
Jesus Christ recognized the divine nature and eternal worth of each person.5 He explained how the two great commandments to love God and love our neighbor are the foundation of all of God’s commandments.6 One of our divine responsibilities is to care for those in need.7 This is why as disciples of Jesus Christ we “bear one another’s burdens, … mourn with those that mourn … , and comfort those that stand in need of comfort.”8
Religion is not only about our relationship with God; it is also about our relationship with each other. Elder Jeffrey R. Holland explained that the English word religion comes from the Latin religare, meaning “to tie” or, more literally, “to re-tie.” Thus, “true religion [is] the tie that binds us to God and to each other.”9
How we treat one another truly matters. President Russell M. Nelson teaches, “The Savior’s message is clear: His true disciples build, lift, encourage, persuade, and inspire.”10 This is even more important when our fellow travelers feel lost, alone, forgotten, or removed.
We do not have to look far to find people who are struggling. We can start by helping someone in our own family, congregation, or local community. We can also seek to relieve the suffering of the 700 million people living in extreme poverty11 or the 100 million people who are forcibly displaced due to persecution, conflict, and identity-based violence.12 Jesus Christ is the perfect example of caring for those in need—the hungry, the stranger, the sick, the poor, the imprisoned. His work is our work.
Elder Gerrit W. Gong teaches that “our journey to God is often found together.”13 As such, our wards should be a refuge for all of God’s children. Are we passively attending church or actively creating communities whose purpose is to worship, remember Christ, and minister to one another?14 We can heed President Nelson’s counsel to judge less, love more, and extend the pure love of Jesus Christ through our words and actions.15



II. The Redemptive Power of Jesus Christ

The Atonement of Jesus Christ is the supreme expression of our Heavenly Father’s love for His children.16 The word atonement describes the setting “at one” of those who have been estranged or separated.
Our Savior’s mission was to provide both a way to return to Heavenly Father and relief in the journey. The Savior knows through His experience how to support us through life’s challenges.17 Make no mistake: Christ is our rescuer and the healer of our souls.
As we exercise faith, He helps us press forward through hardships. He continues to extend His loving and merciful invitation:
“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; … and ye shall find rest unto your souls.”18
The metaphor of the yoke is powerful. As President Howard W. Hunter explained: “The yoke was a device … that allowed the strength of a second animal to be linked and coupled with the effort of a single animal, sharing and reducing the heavy labor of the [task in hand]. A burden that was overwhelming or perhaps impossible for one to bear could be equitably and comfortably borne by two bound together with a common yoke.”19
President Nelson taught: “You come unto Christ to be yoked with Him and with His power, so that you’re not pulling life’s load alone. You’re pulling life’s load yoked with the Savior and Redeemer of the world.”20
How do we yoke or bind ourselves to the Savior? Elder David A. Bednar explains: 
“Making and keeping sacred covenants yokes us to and with the Lord Jesus Christ. In essence, the Savior is beckoning us to rely upon and pull together with Him. … 
“We are not and never need be alone.”21
To anyone burdened, lost, confused: You do not have to do this alone.22 Through the Atonement of Christ and His ordinances, you can be yoked or bound to Him. He will lovingly provide the strength and healing you need to face the journey ahead. He is the refuge from our storms still.23



III. Heavenly Father’s Love

For the record, Jasper is witty, affectionate, intelligent, and rambunctious. But the key to this story is he is mine. He is my son, and I love him more than he will ever know. If an imperfect, earthly father feels this way about his child, can you imagine how a perfect, glorified, loving Heavenly Father feels about you?
To my dear friends of the rising generation, Gen Z and Gen Alpha: Please know faith requires work.24 We live in a time when, for many, only “seeing is believing.” Faith can be challenging and requires choices. But prayers are answered.25 And answers can be felt.26 Some of the most real things in life are not seen; they are felt, known, and experienced. They too are real.
Jesus Christ wants you to know and have a relationship with your Father in Heaven.27 He taught, “What man among you, having a son, and he shall be standing out, and shall say, Father, open thy house that I may come in and sup with thee, will not say, Come in, my son; for mine is thine, and thine is mine?”28 Can you think of a more personal, loving image of God the Eternal Father?
You are His child. If you are feeling lost, if you have questions or lack wisdom, if you are struggling with your circumstances or wrestling with spiritual dissonance, turn to Him. Pray to Him for comfort, love, answers, and direction. Whatever the need and wherever you are, pour out your heart to your Heavenly Father. For some, you may want to follow President Nelson’s invitation and ask “if He is really there—if He knows you. Ask Him how He feels about you. And then listen.”29
Dear brothers and sisters:


Know your Father in Heaven. He is perfect and loving.


Know who Jesus Christ is.30 He is our Savior and Redeemer. Bind yourself and those you love to Him.


And know who you are. Know your true divine identity. God’s plan of happiness is all about you. You are His precious child and of great worth. He knows and loves you.


Of these simple but foundational truths I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Luke 15:4–32.


See Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ (2023), 1.


M. Russell Ballard, “Children of Heavenly Father” (Brigham Young University devotional, Mar. 3, 2020), speeches.byu.edu.


See John 3:16; Mosiah 15:1; 3 Nephi 17:6–10.


See Preach My Gospel, chapter 3.


See Matthew 22:36–40.


See General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1.2, Gospel Library.


Mosiah 18:8, 9.


Jeffrey R. Holland, “Religion: Bound by Loving Ties” (Brigham Young University devotional, Aug. 16, 2016), speeches.byu.edu.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 99.


“The number of people in extreme poverty rose by 70 million to more than 700 million people” (“Poverty,” Nov. 30, 2022, World Bank, worldbank.org).


“More than 100 million people are forcibly displaced” (“Refugee Data Finder,” May 23, 2022, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, unhcr.org).


Gerrit W. Gong, “Room in the Inn,” Liahona, May 2021, 25.


See General Handbook, 1.3.7, Gospel Library.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” 98–101.


See John 3:16.


See Alma 7:11–12; Doctrine and Covenants 122:8.


Matthew 11:28–29.


Howard W. Hunter, “Come unto Me,” Ensign, Nov. 1990, 18.


“The Mission and Ministry of the Savior: A Discussion with Elder Russell M. Nelson,” Ensign, June 2005, 18.


David A. Bednar, “Bear Up Their Burdens with Ease,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2014, 88.


President Camille N. Johnson said: “Brothers and sisters, I can’t go at it alone, and I don’t need to, and I won’t. Choosing to be bound to my Savior, Jesus Christ, through the covenants I have made with God, ‘I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me’ [Philippians 4:13]” (“Jesus Christ Is Relief,” Liahona, May 2023, 82).


See Psalm 62:6–8.


See James 2:17.


See Matthew 7:7–8; James 1:5.


“He [the Holy Ghost] is the Comforter (John 14:26). As the soothing voice of a loving parent can quiet a crying child, the whisperings of the Spirit can calm our fears, hush the nagging worries of our life, and comfort us when we grieve. The Holy Ghost can fill us ‘with hope and perfect love’ and ‘teach [us] the peaceable things of the kingdom’ (Moroni 8:26; Doctrine and Covenants 36:2)” (Topics and Questions, “Holy Ghost,” Gospel Library).
“He [the Holy Ghost] ‘witnesses of the Father and the Son’ (2 Nephi 31:18). It is only through the power of the Holy Ghost that we can receive a sure testimony of God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ. 
“The Holy Ghost testifies of truth, and it is through His power that we ‘may know the truth of all things’ (Moroni 10:5)” (“The Holy Ghost Testifies of Truth,” Liahona, Mar. 2010, 14, 15).
“But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me” (John 15:26).


See John 14:6–7; 17:3.


Joseph Smith Translation, Matthew 7:17 (in the Bible appendix).


Russell M. Nelson, “Come, Follow Me,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 90.


See Mark 8:27–29.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"How Great Will Be Your Joy","year":"2023","month":"10"}



How Great Will Be Your Joy

By Elder Ronald A. Rasband
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

I now invite you to take your know-how, coupled with your time-honored testimonies, and go on a mission.


My dear brothers and sisters, my thoughts today are on the gathering of Israel, what President Russell M. Nelson calls “the most important thing taking place on earth today. Nothing else compares in magnitude, nothing else compares in importance, nothing else compares in majesty.”1
The gathering is the ultimate recognition that “the worth of souls is great in the sight of God.”2 It is as simple as that. We are gathering God’s children in these last days that they might have “blessings poured out upon their heads”3 and the promises of “the riches of eternity.”4 It follows that to gather Israel we need missionaries—many more than are serving.5 Today I am speaking to the many seasoned seniors in the Church who could serve as missionaries. The Lord needs you. We need you in New York and Chicago, Australia and Africa, Thailand and Mexico, and everywhere in between.
Let me take you back to the year 2015. I was a newly called member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. One of the wonderful responsibilities we carry as Apostles is to assign missionaries to their fields of labor. I had participated as a Seventy in the process,6 but now as an Apostle, I felt the full weight of the assignment. I began with prayerfully placing a great number of young elders and sisters, one by one, in missions around the world. Then I turned to the senior couples. There were 10 on the list. Not very many. Surprised, I asked my associate from the Missionary Department, “How many do we need this week to fill the requests?”
He responded, “300.”
That sobering moment has stayed with me: 10 couples to fill 300 requests.
President Russell M. Nelson has encouraged couples to “get on their knees and ask Heavenly Father if the time is right for them to serve a mission.”7 Of all the qualifications, he said, “a desire to serve may be the most important.”8
As the scripture says, “If ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work.”9 That work is all about the law of the harvest. We read in John, “Both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together.”10
I have seen the law of the harvest fulfilled in my own family.
Some years ago I was visiting family, when the bishop asked me to conclude the sacrament service.11 As I was coming down from the stand, a woman approached me with her seven children and introduced herself as Sister Rebecca Guzman.
She asked, “Elder Rasband, do you know Rulon and Verda Rasband?”
I beamed and replied, “They are my parents.”
You can see where this is going. With Rebecca’s permission, who is here with family in the Conference Center, I share her family’s story.12

My parents, Elder Rulon and Sister Verda Rasband, were serving as a senior couple in the Florida Fort Lauderdale Mission.13 They were proselyting and by divine guidance knocked on the door of Rebecca’s home. She was just a teenager and loved listening to the music of the Osmonds, in particular our friend Donny—who is here with us today.14 She had listened to their media interviews and learned they were members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. She felt there was something different about them, and thinking it might be their religion, Rebecca spent two years researching the Church’s beliefs in the school library. So, when a kindly-looking couple knocked on her family’s door and introduced themselves as Latter-day Saint missionaries, she was taken back.
“My mother told me to get rid of them,” Rebecca later wrote, “but my heart said, ‘No.’ I looked into their faces, and I felt so much warmth and love. The memory still brings tears to my eyes and deep emotion to my heart.”15
Rebecca invited them in, and my missionary parents shared a message with her, her two younger sisters, and, despite her objections, her mother.
Rebecca described to me: “Both your parents were wonderful in explaining any questions we had. I can still see their faces as if there was light surrounding them. We always hugged your mother when she left, and she always made a point of helping my mother feel comfortable and respected. Your father always had a sparkle in his eyes as he was teaching us about Jesus Christ. He tried to include my father in discussions and eventually won him over. My father was a chef at a local country club and started cooking dinners for your parents, including making your father’s favorite, key lime pie.”16
When Elder and Sister Rasband asked Rebecca and her family to read the Book of Mormon, Rebecca did so in five days. She wanted to be baptized immediately, but the other members of her family were not ready. After four months, Rebecca insisted she be baptized and join the true Church. She recalled, “Every fiber of my soul knew it was true.”17 On April 5, 1979, missionaries baptized 19-year-old Rebecca, her mother, and two sisters. My father was a witness at the baptism.
When I met Rebecca and her family at church, we took a photograph of her family with me. I took it home to my elderly mother, and she held it close to her heart. Then she said to me, “Ronnie, this is one of the happiest days of my life.”

My mother’s response begs the question for our seniors: “What are you doing at this stage of your life?” There are so many ways senior missionaries can do what no one else can. You are a remarkable force for good, seasoned in the Church, and poised to encourage and rescue God’s children.
Some of you might be thinking: “But what about leaving the grandchildren? We would miss family milestones, birthdays, friends, and even our pets.” If I had asked my mother why she and Dad went on a mission, I know she would have said this: “I have grandchildren. I want them to know that your father and I served in the mission field, we wanted to set an example for our posterity, and we were blessed, so blessed.”
As I have visited missions around the world, I have seen the remarkable service of our legion of senior missionaries. It is clear they are happy doing “the will of the Lord” and being about “the Lord’s business.”18
For some, and we hope thousands of you, full-time missionary service in another corner of the world will be just the right place.19 For others, serving a Church-service mission at home might be preferable. Because of health issues and other circumstances, there are those who are unable to serve. We understand those situations, and it would be my hope you might find ways to support those who are serving. Follow the prophet’s counsel and pray to know what the Lord would have you do.
Mission fields around the world are pleading for your help. President Nelson has said of our senior missionaries, “They are young in spirit, wise, and willing to work.”20
Out in the field, you have a smorgasbord of opportunities: you may serve in mission offices or temples, strengthen young missionaries, bolster small branches, work in FamilySearch centers or at historic sites, teach institute, provide humanitarian service, work with young adults, help in employment centers or on Church farms. The particulars of ways to serve, what best suits you, where you are needed, and how you can get ready to go are addressed on the website “Senior Missionary.”21 You can also talk with your bishop or branch president.
I have called many couples to serve and watched as the Light of Christ has filled their countenances.22 At their return, they have described growing closer to the Lord and closer to one another, feeling the Spirit of the Lord pour down upon them, and knowing they are making a difference.23 Who would not want that?
A mission might be the greatest chapter in a couple’s life. A good title might be “My Lord Will Have Need of Me.”24 You may be on unfamiliar ground; however, the power of the Spirit will make you feel right at home.
My parents and tens of thousands of returned missionary couples have borne testimony of the joy they found in missionary work. The Lord has said in latter-day scripture, “And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father!”25
Isaiah gave us a poetic description of what it means to serve in the mission “field.” Scripture tells us “the field is the world.”26 This great ancient prophet wrote, “For ye shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace: the mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.”27 The mountains, hills, fields, and trees can be likened to mission presidents, bishops, district leaders, members, and those who seek the truth but “they know not where to find it.”28 They will testify that the senior missionaries change the very landscape with their testimony of our Savior and Redeemer, Jesus Christ.
As an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, I ask you to serve as a missionary in the gathering of Israel and perhaps even serve again. We need you—we need you. We are grateful to you seniors for the lives you have led and the examples you have been in your homes, wards, and stakes. I now invite you to take your know-how, coupled with your time-honored testimonies, and go on a mission. I pray that the next time I sit down to assign senior couples, there will be hundreds of you waiting anxiously for your call.
I also promise that as you serve, you will feel the love of the Lord in your life, you will know Him, He will know you, and “how great shall be your joy.”29 Your dedicated service to Jesus Christ will inspire and bless your family, your grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. “Peace, and love [will] be multiplied”30 in their lives for years to come. I promise. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel” (worldwide youth devotional, June 3, 2018), Gospel Library.


Doctrine and Covenants 18:10.


3 Nephi 10:18.


Doctrine and Covenants 78:18.


The Church has 71,000 full-time missionaries in 414 missions across the world, from North and South America to Europe and Africa, Asia, and Australia/Oceania. There are 34,000 senior Church-service missionaries. (Missionary Department data, Sept. 2023.)


See Ronald A. Rasband, “The Divine Call of a Missionary,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2010, 52–53.


Russell M. Nelson, “Senior Missionary Moments,” Ensign, Apr. 2016, 67; Liahona, Apr. 2016, 27.


Russell M. Nelson, “Senior Missionaries and the Gospel,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2004, 81.


Doctrine and Covenants 4:3.


John 4:36.


I was in New York, USA, attending the baptism of granddaughter Brooklyn and the blessing of granddaughter Ella, April 2006.


Letter from Rebecca Guzman to Elder Ronald A. Rasband, Sept. 8, 2009.


My parents served in the Florida Fort Lauderdale Mission in 1979.


The Osmond family was a popular American music group known for their pop songs. The group reached the height of fame in the mid-1970s, performing on television variety shows. Donny and Marie continued with television with stage careers, while the brothers performed for decades as country artists in Branson, Missouri.


Letter from Rebecca Guzman, Sept. 8, 2009.


Letter from Rebecca Guzman, Sept. 8, 2009.


Letter from Rebecca Guzman, Sept. 8, 2009.


Doctrine and Covenants 64:29.


Senior missionary opportunities take many forms, and couples or senior sisters may list preferences as well as a full-time or Church-service assignment. Ultimately, the prophet of the Church issues the call for full-time service. Stake presidents issue Church-service assignments. Service can range from 6 months to 23 months, and senior missionaries have more flexibility and less strenuous activity than young missionaries. See seniormissionary.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


Russell M. Nelson, “Senior Missionaries and the Gospel,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2004, 79.


See seniormissionary.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See Alma 5:14. “Countenance” can be described as reflecting an individual’s spiritual attitude and state of mind.


See Jude 1:22; Mosiah 4:20.


See “I’ll Go Where You Want Me to Go,” Hymns, no. 270.


Doctrine and Covenants 18:15.


The Lord explained, “The field is the world; … the harvest is the end of the world” (Matthew 13:38–39).


Isaiah 55:12.


Doctrine and Covenants 123:12.


Doctrine and Covenants 18:15.


Jude 1:2.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Hallmarks of Happiness","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Hallmarks of Happiness

By Elder Gary B. Sabin
Of the Seventy

Building upon the foundation of Jesus Christ is essential to our happiness.


While on a business flight several years ago, I found myself seated next to a man from the Netherlands. I was eager to visit with him since I had served in Belgium and the Netherlands as a young missionary.
As we became acquainted, he gave me his business card with the unique job title of “professor of happiness.” I commented on his amazing profession and asked him what a professor of happiness did. He said he taught people how to have a happy life by establishing meaningful relationships and goals. I replied, “That’s wonderful, but what if you could also teach how those relationships can continue beyond the grave and answer other questions of the soul, such as what is the purpose of life, how can we overcome our weaknesses, and where do we go after we die?” He admitted that it would be amazing if we had the answers to those questions, and I was pleased to share with him that we do.
Today, I would like to review a few essential principles for true happiness that seem to elude so many in this confusing world, where many things are interesting but few are truly important.
Alma taught the people of his day, “For behold, I say unto you there be many things to come; and behold, there is one thing which is of more importance than they all—for behold, the time is not far distant that the Redeemer liveth and cometh among his people.”1
This declaration is equally important to us today as we anticipate and prepare for Christ’s Second Coming!
Therefore, my first observation is that building upon the foundation of Jesus Christ is essential to our happiness. This is a sure foundation, “a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fall.”2 Doing so prepares us for the challenges of life, come what may.
Many years ago, I went to a summer Scout camp with our son Justin. As the activities got underway, he excitedly announced that he and his friends wanted to earn the archery merit badge. Doing so required the boys to pass a short written test and hit a target with their arrows.
My heart sank. At the time, Justin was quite frail due to cystic fibrosis, a disease he had been battling since birth. I wondered if he could pull the bow back far enough to send the arrow to the target.
As he and his friends left for the archery class, I silently prayed that he would not be humiliated by the experience. A couple of anxious hours later, I saw him coming up the path toward me with a big smile. “Dad!” he exclaimed. “I got the merit badge! I got a bull’s-eye; it was on the target next to mine, but I hit a bull’s-eye!” He had pulled the bow back with all his might and let the arrow fly, unable to control its trajectory. How grateful I am for that understanding archery instructor who never said, “Sorry, wrong target!” Rather, upon seeing Justin’s obvious limitations and earnest effort, he kindly responded, “Good job!”
That is how it will be for us if we do our very best to follow Christ and His prophets in spite of our limitations. If we come unto Him by keeping our covenants and repenting of our sins, we will joyfully hear our Savior’s commendation: “Well done, thou good and faithful servant.”3
I bear you my witness of the divinity of the Savior of the world and of His redemptive love and power to heal, strengthen, and lift us when we are earnestly striving to come unto Him. Conversely, there is no way we can move with the crowd and also toward Jesus. The Savior has defeated death, disease, and sin and has provided a way for our ultimate perfection if we will follow Him with all of our hearts.4
My second observation is that it is crucial to our happiness that we remember that we are sons and daughters of a loving Heavenly Father. Knowing and trusting this reality changes everything.
Several years ago, on a flight home from a Church assignment, Sister Sabin and I found ourselves seated directly behind a very large man who had a big, angry face tattooed on the back of his bald head as well as the number 439.
When we landed, I said, “Excuse me, sir. Do you mind if I ask the significance of the number tattooed on the back of your head?” I didn’t dare ask about the angry face.
He said, “That’s me. That’s who I am. I own that territory: 219!”
Four hundred and thirty-nine was the actual number on his head, so I was surprised he got it wrong since it was so important to him.
I thought how sad it was that this man’s identity and self-esteem were based on a number associated with a gang territory. I thought to myself: This tough-looking man was once someone’s little boy who still needed to feel valued and to belong. If only he knew who he really was and to whom he really belonged, for we have all been “bought with a price.”5
There is a wise line in a song from the film The Prince of Egypt that states, “Look at your life through heaven’s eyes.”6 As the knowledge of our divine lineage and eternal potential sinks deep into our souls, we will be able to view life as a purposeful, unfolding adventure to learn and grow from, even as “we see through a glass, darkly,”7 for a short season.
The third hallmark for happiness is to always remember the worth of a soul. We do this best by following the Savior’s admonition: “Love one another; as I have loved you.”8
He also taught, “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.”9
The book of Proverbs wisely counsels, “Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it.”10
We will never regret being too kind. In God’s eyes, kindness is synonymous with greatness. Part of being kind is being forgiving and nonjudgmental.
Many years ago our young family was going to see a movie for family home evening. We were all in the van except for one of our sons and my wife, Valerie. It was dark outside, and as our son threw open the door and ran toward the car, he accidentally kicked what he thought was our cat on the porch. Unfortunately for our son and my wife, who was right behind him, it was not our cat but rather a very unhappy skunk, who let them know it! We all returned to the house, where they both showered and washed their hair with tomato juice, the supposed sure remedy to eliminate the skunk odor. By the time they had cleaned up and changed their clothes, we were all desensitized to any odor, so we decided we were OK to go to the movie after all. 
Once we were seated at the back of the theater, one by one the people around us suddenly decided to go out to get popcorn. When they came back, however, no one returned to their original seat.
We have laughed as we’ve recalled that experience, but what if all of our sins had an odor? What if we could smell dishonesty, lust, envy, or pride? With our own weaknesses revealed, we would hopefully be a little more considerate and careful of others and, likewise, they with us as we make the needed changes in our lives. I actually love the smell of tobacco in church because it indicates someone is trying to change. They need our welcoming arms around them.
President Russell M. Nelson has wisely said, “One of the easiest ways to identify a true follower of Jesus Christ is how compassionately that person treats other people.”11
Paul wrote to the Ephesians, “And be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ’s sake hath forgiven you.”12
As disciples of Jesus Christ, we are asked to trust Heavenly Father and our Savior and not attempt to replace Them. Jesus Christ knows everyone’s imperfections perfectly and will judge them perfectly.
My fourth happiness hallmark is to maintain an eternal perspective. Our Father’s plan stretches into the eternities; it is easy to focus on the here and now and forget the hereafter.
I was taught this lesson powerfully a number of years ago by our then-16-year-old daughter, Jennifer. She was about to have a double lung transplant, where the five diseased lobes of her lungs would be completely removed and replaced by two healthy smaller lobes, donated by two amazing Christlike friends. It was a very high-risk procedure, yet the night before her surgery, Jennifer almost preached to me with all of her 90 pounds (41 kg), saying, “Don’t worry, Dad! Tomorrow I will wake up with new lungs, or I will wake up in a better place. Either way will be great.” That is faith; that is eternal perspective! Seeing life from an eternal vantage point provides clarity, comfort, courage, and hope.
After the surgery, when the long-awaited day came to remove the breathing tube and turn off the ventilator that had been helping Jennifer breathe, we anxiously waited to see if her two smaller lobes would work. When she took her first breath, she immediately started crying. Seeing our concern, she quickly exclaimed, “It’s just so good to breathe.” 
Ever since that day, I have thanked Heavenly Father morning and night for my ability to breathe. We are surrounded by innumerable blessings that we can easily take for granted if we are not mindful. Conversely, when nothing is expected and everything is appreciated, life becomes magical.
President Nelson has said: “Each new morning is a gift from God. Even the air we breathe is a loving loan from Him. He preserves us from day to day and supports us from one moment to another. Therefore, our first noble deed of the morning should be a humble prayer of gratitude.”13
That brings me to my fifth and final observation, which is you will never be happier than you are grateful.
The Lord declared, “And he who receiveth all things with thankfulness shall be made glorious.”14 Perhaps this is because gratitude gives birth to a multitude of other virtues.
How our awareness would change if every morning we awoke with only the blessings we were grateful for the night before. Failure to appreciate our blessings can result in a sense of dissatisfaction, which can rob us of the joy and happiness that gratitude engenders. Those in the great and spacious building entice us to look beyond the mark, thereby missing the mark entirely.
In reality, the greatest happiness and blessing of mortality will be found in who we have become through God’s grace as we make and keep sacred covenants with Him. Our Savior will polish and refine us through the merits of His atoning sacrifice and has said of those who willingly follow Him, “They shall be mine in that day when I shall come to make up my jewels.”15
I promise you that if we build our lives upon the foundation of Jesus Christ; value our true identity as sons and daughters of God; remember the worth of a soul; maintain an eternal perspective; and gratefully appreciate our many blessings, especially Christ’s invitation to come unto Him, we can find the true happiness we seek during this mortal adventure. Life will still have its challenges, but we will be able to better face each with a sense of purpose and peace because of the eternal truths we understand and live by.
I bear you my witness of the reality of God, our loving Father, and of His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ. I also testify of living prophets, seers, and revelators. What a blessing it is to receive the counsel of heaven through them. As the Savior clearly stated, “Whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same.”16 In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Alma 7:7; emphasis added.


Helaman 5:12.


Matthew 25:21.


See Moroni 10:32.


1 Corinthians 6:20; see also 1 Corinthians 7:23.


Stephen Schwartz, “Through Heaven’s Eyes,” The Prince of Egypt: Music from the Original Motion Picture Soundtrack (1998), 7.


1 Corinthians 13:12.


John 13:34.


Matthew 25:40.


Proverbs 3:27.


Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 98.


Ephesians 4:32.


Teachings of Russell M. Nelson (2018), 137–38.


Doctrine and Covenants 78:19.


Doctrine and Covenants 101:3.


Doctrine and Covenants 1:38.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Humble to Accept and Follow","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Humble to Accept and Follow

By Elder Joni L. Koch
Of the Seventy

Humility is a mandatory requirement for us to be ready to return to the presence of God.


In the fifth chapter of Alma, an introspective question is posed: “Could ye say, if ye were called to die at this time, within yourselves, that ye have been sufficiently humble?”1 That question implies that humility is a mandatory requirement for us to be ready to return to the presence of God.
We all like to think we are sufficiently humble, but some experiences in life make us realize that the natural, prideful man or woman often is very much alive within us.
Years ago, when our two daughters were still living at home, I decided to show them and my wife the business unit of which I was in charge in the company I worked for.
My real purpose though was to show them a place where, unlike our home, everyone would do exactly what I asked them to do without questioning me. As we arrived at the front gate, which usually opened automatically when my car approached, I was surprised that it didn’t open this time. Instead, a security guard I had never seen before in my life came to the car and asked me for my company ID.
I told him I never needed an ID to drive into the property with my car and then asked him the classic prideful-person question: “Do you know who you’re talking to?”
To which he replied, “Well, since you don’t have your company ID, I cannot know who you are, and while I am at this gate, you will not be allowed to enter the premises without proper identification.”
I thought about looking at the rearview mirror to check my daughters’ reaction to all that, but I knew they were savoring every second of that moment! My wife at my side was shaking her head in disapproval of my behavior. My last resort then was to apologize to the guard and say I was very sorry for treating him so badly. “You’re forgiven,” he said, “but without a company ID, you’re not coming in today!”
I then drove very slowly back home to get my ID, having perhaps learned this valuable lesson: when we choose not to be humble, we end up being humiliated.
In Proverbs we find, “A man’s pride shall bring him low: but honour shall uphold the humble in spirit.”2 In order to develop humility, we must understand what it really means in the context of the gospel.

Some people confuse being humble with other things such as, for example, being poor. But there are actually many who are poor and prideful and also many who are rich and yet humble. Others who are very shy or have low self-esteem may have an outward appearance of humility but deep inside are full of pride sometimes.
Then what is humility? According to Preach My Gospel, it is a “willingness to submit to the will of the Lord. … It is being teachable. … [It] is a vital catalyst for spiritual growth.”3
There are certainly many opportunities for us all to improve in this Christlike attribute. I would like to explore first how humble we’ve been, or should be, in following the counsel of our prophet. A pop quiz for us individually could be:


Do we mention the full name of the Church in all our interactions? President Russell M. Nelson said, “To remove the Lord’s name from the Lord’s Church is a major victory for Satan.”4


Are we letting God prevail in our lives by accepting our prophet’s very specific invitation? “Today I call upon our members everywhere to lead out in abandoning attitudes and actions of prejudice.”5


Are we overcoming the world, trusting the doctrine of Christ more than the philosophies of men, as our prophet taught?6


Have we become peacemakers, saying positive things to and about people? President Nelson taught us last general conference the following: “If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy that we can say about another person—whether to his face or behind her back—that should be our standard of communication.”7


These are simple but powerful instructions. Remember, all the people of Moses had to do to be healed was to look at the brass serpent which he had lifted up.8 But “because of the simpleness of the way, or the easiness of it, there were many who perished.”9
During this conference we’ve heard and will yet hear the unfailing counsel of our prophets and apostles. It’s a perfect occasion to develop humility and let our strong opinions be swallowed by an even stronger conviction that the Lord does speak through these chosen leaders.
Above all, in developing humility, we must also understand and accept that we are not able to overcome our challenges or to achieve our full potential through our own efforts only. Motivational speakers, writers, coaches, and influencers around the world, especially on digital platforms, will say that everything depends solely on us and our actions. The world believes in the arm of flesh.
But through the restored gospel, we’ve learned that we greatly depend on Heavenly Father’s benevolence and the Atonement of our Savior, Jesus Christ, “for we know that it is by grace that we are saved, after all we can do.”10 That’s why it’s so important to make and keep covenants with God, as doing so will give us full access to the healing, enabling, and perfecting power of Jesus Christ through His Atonement.
Attending sacrament meeting weekly and worshipping in the temple regularly to participate in the ordinances and to receive and renew covenants is a sign that we recognize our dependence on Heavenly Father and our Savior, Jesus Christ. That will invite Their power into our lives to help us through all our problems and ultimately fulfill the measure of our creation.
Not long ago the level of my humility and understanding of my dependence on the Lord was once again tested. I was in a taxi going to the airport to catch a short flight to a place where there was a very difficult situation to solve. The taxi driver, who was not a member of the Church, looked at me through the mirror and said, “I can see you’re not well today!”
“Could you tell?” I asked.
“Of course,” he said. Then he said something like, “You actually have a very negative halo around you!”
I explained to him that I had quite a hard situation to deal with, and he then asked me, “Have you done everything in your power to solve this?”
I responded I had done everything I could.
He then said something I have never forgotten: “So leave this in God’s hands, and everything will work out fine.”
I confess that I was tempted to ask him, “Do you know who you’re talking to?” But I didn’t! What I did was humble myself before the Lord throughout that one-hour flight, asking for divine help. As I left the airplane, I learned that the difficult situation to be solved was already in order and that my presence wouldn’t even be necessary anymore.
Brothers and sisters, the command, invitation, and promise from the Lord is clear and comforting: “Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers.”11
May we be humble to follow the counsel of our prophets and accept that only God and Jesus Christ can transform us—through ordinances and covenants received in His Church—into the best version of ourselves in this life and, one day, make us perfect in Christ. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Alma 5:27.


Proverbs 29:23.


“Seek Christlike Attributes,” Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ (2023), 131.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Correct Name of the Church,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 88.


Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 94.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 95–98.


Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 100.


See Numbers 21:7–9; 1 Nephi 17:41.


1 Nephi 17:41.


2 Nephi 25:23.


Doctrine and Covenants 112:10.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Seeing God’s Family through the Overview Lens","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Seeing God’s Family through the Overview Lens

By Sister Tamara W. Runia
First Counselor in the Young Women General Presidency

I believe we can, through the eye of faith, zoom out and view ourselves and our families with hope and joy.


When our youngest daughter, Berkeley, was little, I started using reading glasses―the kind that zoom in and magnify everything. One day, as we sat together reading a book, I looked at her with love but also sadness because, suddenly, she seemed more grown up. I thought, “Where has the time gone? She’s so big!”
As I lifted my reading glasses to wipe away a tear, I realized, “Oh wait—she’s not bigger; it’s just these glasses! Never mind!”
Sometimes all we can see is that up-close, magnified view of those we love. Tonight, I invite you to zoom out and look through a different lens—an eternal lens that focuses on the big picture, your bigger story.
During humankind’s early push into space, the unmanned rockets had no windows. But by the Apollo 8 mission to the moon, the astronauts had one. While floating in space, they were struck by the power of seeing our earth and took this spectacular image, capturing the whole world’s attention! Those astronauts experienced a sensation so powerful it has been given its own name: the overview effect.



NASA


Viewing from a new vantage point changes everything. One space traveler said it “reduces things to a size that you think everything is manageable. … We can do this. Peace on earth—no problem. It gives people that type of energy … that type of power.”1
As humans, we have an earthbound point of view, but God sees the grand overview of the universe. He sees all creation, all of us, and is filled with hope.
Is it possible to begin to see as God sees even while living on the surface of this planet—to feel this overview feeling? I believe we can, through the eye of faith, zoom out and view ourselves and our families with hope and joy.
The scriptures agree. Moroni speaks about those whose faith was so “exceedingly strong” that they “truly saw … with an eye of faith, and they were glad.”2
With an eye focused on the Savior, they felt joy and knew this truth: because of Christ, it all works out. Everything you and you and you are worried about—it’s all going to be OK! And those who look with an eye of faith can feel that it’s going to be OK now.
I went through a rough patch my senior year in high school when I wasn’t making great choices. I remember seeing my mom crying, and I wondered if I’d disappointed her. At the time, I worried that her tears meant she’d lost hope for me, and if she didn’t feel hope for me, maybe there wasn’t a way back.
But my dad was more practiced at zooming out and taking the long view. He’d learned from experience that worry feels a lot like love, but it’s not the same.3 He used the eye of faith to see that everything would work out, and his hopeful approach changed me.
When I graduated from high school and went to BYU, my dad sent letters reminding me of who I was. He became my cheerleader, and everybody needs a cheerleader—someone who isn’t telling you, “You’re not running fast enough”; they’re lovingly reminding you that you can.
Dad exemplified Lehi’s dream. Like Lehi, he knew that you don’t chase after your loved ones who feel lost. “You stay where you are and call them. You go to the tree, stay at the tree, keep eating the fruit and, with a smile on your face, continue to beckon to those you love and show by example that eating the fruit is a happy thing!”4
This visual image has helped me during low moments when I find myself at the tree, eating the fruit and crying because I’m worried; and really, how helpful is that? Instead, let’s choose hope—hope in our Creator and in one another, fueling our ability to be better than we are right now.
Shortly after Elder Neal A. Maxwell passed away, a reporter asked his son what he’d miss most. He said dinners at his parents’ house because he always left feeling like his dad believed in him.
This was around the time our adult children were starting to come home for Sunday dinners with their spouses. During the week, I found myself making lists in my mind of things I could remind them of on Sunday, like “Maybe try and help out more with the kids when you’re home” or “Don’t forget to be a good listener.”
When I read Brother Maxwell’s comment, I threw away the lists and silenced that critical voice, so when I saw my grown children for that brief time each week, I focused on the many positive things they were already doing. When our oldest son, Ryan, passed away a few years later, I remember being grateful our time together was happier and more positive.
Before we interact with a loved one, can we ask ourselves the question “Is what I’m about to do or say helpful or hurtful?” Our words are one of our superpowers, and family members are like human blackboards, standing in front of us saying, “Write what you think of me!” These messages, whether intentional or unintentional, should be hopeful and encouraging.5
Our job is not to teach someone who’s going through a rough patch that they are bad or disappointing. On rare occasions we may feel prompted to correct, but most often let’s tell our loved ones in spoken and unspoken ways the messages they long to hear: “Our family feels whole and complete because you are in it.” “You will be loved for the rest of your life—no matter what.”
Sometimes what we need is empathy more than advice; listening more than a lecture; someone who hears and wonders, “How would I have to feel to say what they just said?”
Remember, families are a God-given laboratory where we’re figuring things out, so missteps and miscalculations are not just possible but probable. And wouldn’t it be interesting if, at the end of our lives, we could see that those relationships, even those challenging moments, were the very things that helped us to become more like our Savior? Each difficult interaction is an opportunity to learn how to love at a deeper level—a godlike level.6
Let’s zoom out to view family relationships as a powerful vehicle to teach us the lessons we came here to learn as we turn to the Savior.
Let’s admit, in a fallen world there’s no way to be a perfect spouse, parent, son or daughter, grandchild, mentor, or friend—but a million ways to be a good one.7 Let’s stay at the tree, partake of the love of God, and share it. By lifting the people around us, we ascend together.
Unfortunately, the memory of eating the fruit is not enough; we need to partake again and again in ways that reposition our lens and connect us to the heavenly overview by opening up the scriptures, which are filled with light, to chase away the darkness, staying on our knees until our casual prayer turns mighty. This is when hearts soften, and we begin to see as God sees.
In these last days, perhaps our greatest work will be with our loved ones—good people living in a wicked world. Our hope changes the way they see themselves and who they really are. And through this lens of love, they’ll see who they will become.
But the adversary does not want us or our loved ones to return home together. And because we live on a planet that is bound by time and a finite number of years,8 he tries to perpetuate a very real sense of panic in us. It’s hard to see, when we’re zoomed in, that our direction matters more than our speed.
Remember, “If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.”9 Thankfully, the God we worship is not bound by time. He sees who our loved ones really are and who we really are.10 So He’s patient with us, hoping we’ll be patient with each other.
I will admit there are times when earth, our temporal home, feels like an island of sorrow—moments when I have one eye of faith and the other eye is weeping.11 Do you know this feeling?
I had it Tuesday.
Can we instead choose the faithful posture of our prophet when he promises miracles in our families? If we do, our joy will increase even if turbulence increases. He’s promising that an overview effect can be experienced now, regardless of our circumstances.12
Having this eye of faith now is a recapturing, or an echo, of the faith we had before we came to this planet. It sees past the uncertainty of a moment, allowing us to “cheerfully do all things that lie in our power; and then … stand still.”13
Is there something difficult in your life right now, something you’re worried can’t be resolved? Without the eye of faith, that might feel like God has lost oversight of things, and is that true?
Or maybe your greater fear is that you’re going to go through this difficult time all by yourself, but that would mean God has abandoned you, and is that true?
It is my witness that the Savior has the ability, because of His Atonement, to turn any nightmare you are going through into a blessing. He has given us a promise “with an immutable covenant” that as we strive to love and follow Him, “all things wherewith [we] have been afflicted shall work together for [our] good.”14 All things.

And because we are children of the covenant, we can ask for this hopeful feeling now!
While our families aren’t perfect, we can perfect our love for others until it becomes a constant, unchanging, no-matter-what kind of love—the type of love that supports change and allows for growth and return.
It’s the Savior’s work to bring our loved ones back. It’s His work and His timing. It is our work to provide the hope and a heart they can come home to. “We have neither [God’s] authority to condemn nor His power to redeem, but we have been authorized to exercise His love.”15 President Nelson has also taught that others need our love more than our judgment. “They need to experience the pure love of Jesus Christ reflected in [our] words and actions.”16
Love is the thing that changes hearts. It is the purest motive of all, and others can feel it. Let’s hold fast to these prophetic words offered 50 years ago: “No home is a failure unless it quits trying.”17 Surely, those who love the most and the longest win!
In earthly families, we’re simply doing what God has done with us—pointing the way and hoping our loved ones will go in that direction, knowing the path they travel is theirs to choose.
And when they pass to the other side of the veil and draw close to that loving “gravitational pull” of their heavenly home,18 I believe it will feel familiar because of how they were loved here.
Let’s use that overview lens and see the people we love and live with as shared companions on this beautiful planet.
You and I? We can do this! We can hold on and hope on! We can stay at the tree and partake of the fruit with a smile on our face, letting the Light of Christ in our eyes become something others can count on in their darkest hours. As they see light manifest in our countenances, they will be drawn to it. We can then help refocus their attention to the original source of love and light, “the bright and morning star,” Jesus Christ.19
I bear my testimony that this—all of this—is going to turn out so much better than we could ever imagine! With an eye of faith on Jesus Christ, may we see that everything will be all right in the end and feel that it will be all right now. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Anousheh Ansari, in “The Overview Effect and Other Musings on Earth and Humanity, according to Space Travelers,” cocre.co.


Ether 12:19; emphasis added.


See Jody Moore, “How to Say Hard Things,” Better Than Happy (podcast), Sept. 18, 2020, episode 270.


Ronald E. Bartholomew, used with permission; see also 1 Nephi 8:10; 11:21–22.


See James D. MacArthur, “The Functional Family,” Marriage and Families, vol. 16 (2005), 14.


Made possible as we “pray unto the Father with all the energy of heart, that [we] may be filled with this love” (Moroni 7:48).


Paraphrase of a statement attributed to Jill Churchill.


See Richard Eyre, Life before Life: Origins of the Soul … Knowing Where You Came from and Who You Really Are (2000), 107.


Traditional proverb.


See Doctrine and Covenants 93:24, 26.


See Robert Frost, “Birches,” in Mountain Interval (1916), 39.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 81–84; see also Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 92–95.


Doctrine and Covenants 123:17.


Doctrine and Covenants 98:3; emphasis added.


Wayne E. Brickey, Inviting Him In: How the Atonement Can Change Your Family (2003), 144.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 100.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Harold B. Lee (2000), 134.


See Paul E. Koelliker, “He Truly Loves Us,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2012, 18.


Revelation 22:16.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Brothers and Sisters in Christ","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Brothers and Sisters in Christ

By Elder Ulisses Soares
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

May we enjoy more the spiritual kinship that exists between us and value the different attributes and varied gifts we all have.


My dear friends, we have had marvelous conference sessions today. We have all felt the Spirit of the Lord and His love through the wonderful messages shared by our leaders. I feel privileged to address you this evening as the concluding speaker of this session. I pray that the Spirit of the Lord continues with us as we rejoice together as true brothers and sisters in Christ.
Our dear prophet, Russell M. Nelson, declared: “I call upon our members everywhere to lead out in abandoning attitudes and actions of prejudice. I plead with you to promote respect for all of God’s children.”1 As a global and ever-growing Church, following this invitation from our prophet is a vital prerequisite for building the Savior’s kingdom in every nation of the world.
The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches that we are all begotten spirit sons and daughters of heavenly parents who truly love us2 and that we lived as a family in God’s presence before we were born on this earth. The gospel also teaches that we were all created in the image and likeness of God.3 Therefore, we are equal before Him,4 for He “hath made of one blood all nations of men [and women].”5 Therefore, we all have divine nature, heritage, and potential, for there is “one God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in [us] all.”6
As disciples of Christ, we are invited to increase our faith in, and love for, our spiritual brother- and sisterhood by genuinely knitting our hearts together in unity and love, regardless of our differences, thereby increasing our ability to promote respect for the dignity of all the sons and daughters of God.7
Wasn’t that exactly the condition that the people of Nephi experienced for almost two centuries after Christ ministered to them?
“And surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God. …
“Neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God.
“And how blessed were they!”8
President Nelson further emphasized the importance of spreading dignity and respect for our fellow beings when he stated: “The Creator of us all calls on each of us to abandon attitudes of prejudice against any group of God’s children. Any of us who has prejudice toward another race needs to repent! … It behooves each of us to do whatever we can in our spheres of influence to preserve the dignity and respect every son and daughter of God deserves.”9 In reality, human dignity presupposes respect for our differences.10
Considering the sacred bond that unifies us with God as His children, this prophetic direction given by President Nelson is undoubtedly a fundamental step toward building bridges of understanding rather than creating walls of prejudice and segregation among us.11 However, as Paul warned the Ephesians, we must recognize that in order to achieve this purpose, it will be required to make an individual and collective effort to act with lowliness, meekness, and long-suffering toward one another.12
There is a tale of a certain Jewish rabbi who was enjoying the sunrise with two friends. He asked them, “How do you know when the night is over and a new day has begun?”
One of them replied, “When you can look into the east and can distinguish a sheep from a goat.”
The other then responded, “When you can look into the horizon and distinguish an olive tree from a fig tree.”
They then turned to the wise rabbi and asked him the same question. After long reflection, he replied, “When you can look into the east and see the face of a woman or the face of a man and can say, ‘She is my sister; he is my brother.’”13
My dear friends, I can assure you that the light of a new day shines brighter in our lives when we see and treat our fellow beings with respect and dignity and as true brothers and sisters in Christ.
During His earthly ministry, Jesus so perfectly exemplified this principle as He “went about doing good”14 unto all people, inviting them to come unto Him and partake of His goodness regardless of their origin, social class, or cultural characteristics. He ministered, healed, and was always attentive to everyone’s needs, especially those who at the time were considered different, belittled, or excluded. He denied none but treated them with equity and love, for He saw them as His brothers and sisters, sons and daughters of the same Father.15
One of the most striking occasions when this occurred was when the Savior traveled to Galilee, purposely taking the route which passed through Samaria.16 Jesus then decided to sit by Jacob’s well to rest. While there, a Samaritan woman approached to fill her pitcher with water. In His omniscience, Jesus addressed her, saying, “Give me to drink.”17
This woman was amazed that a Jew had asked a Samaritan woman for assistance and expressed her surprise, saying, “How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.”18
But Jesus, abandoning the long-held traditions of animosity between Samaritans and Jews, lovingly ministered to this woman, helping her to understand who He truly was—that is, the Messiah, who would tell all things and whose coming she was awaiting.19 The impact of that tender ministry caused the woman to run into the city to announce to the people what had happened, saying, “Is not this the Christ?”20
I have deep compassion for those who have been mistreated, belittled, or persecuted by unfeeling and thoughtless people, because, in the course of my life, I have seen firsthand the pain good people suffer from being judged or dismissed because they happened to speak, look, or live differently. I also feel genuine sorrow in my heart for those whose minds remain darkened, whose vision is limited, and whose hearts remain hardened by the belief in the inferiority of those who are different from them. Their limited view of others actually obstructs their ability to see who they are as children of God.
As foretold by the prophets, we are living in the perilous days leading up to the Second Coming of the Savior.21 The world in general is polarized by strong divisions, accentuated by racial, political, and socioeconomic lines. Such divisions sometimes end up influencing people’s way of thinking and acting in relation to their fellow beings. For this reason, it is not uncommon to see people characterizing the way of thinking, acting, and speaking of other cultures, races, and ethnicities as inferior, making use of preconceived, mistaken, and often sarcastic ideas, generating attitudes of contempt, indifference, disrespect, and even prejudice against them. Such attitudes have their roots in pride, arrogance, envy, and jealousy, characteristics of a carnal nature,22 which are totally contrary to Christlike attributes. This conduct is improper for those who are striving to become His true disciples.23 In fact, my dear brothers and sisters, there is no place for prejudiced thoughts or actions in the community of Saints.
As sons and daughters of the covenant, we can help to eliminate this kind of behavior by looking at the apparent differences that exist between us with the Savior’s eyes24 and based on what we have in common—our divine identity and kinship. Moreover, we can strive to see ourselves reflected in the dreams, hopes, sorrows, and pains of our neighbor. We are all fellow travelers as God’s children, equal in our imperfect state and in our ability to grow. We are invited to walk together, peaceably, with our hearts filled with love toward God and all men—or, as Abraham Lincoln noted, “with malice toward none; with charity for all.”25
Have you ever pondered on how the principle of respect for human dignity and equality is demonstrated through the simple way we dress in the house of the Lord? We all come to the temple united in one purpose and filled with the desire to be pure and holy in His holy presence. Dressed in white, all of us are received by the Lord Himself as His beloved children, men and women of God, progeny of Christ.26 We are privileged to perform the same ordinances, make the same covenants, commit ourselves to live higher and holier lives, and receive the same eternal promises. United in purpose, we see one another with new eyes, and in our oneness, we celebrate our differences as divine children of God.
I recently helped guide dignitaries and government officials through the open house for the Brasília Brazil Temple. I paused in the changing area with the vice president of Brazil, and we discussed the white clothing that everyone wears inside the temple. I explained to him that this universal use of white clothing symbolizes that we are all alike unto God and that, in the temple, our identities were not vice president of a country or a church leader but our eternal identity as sons of a loving Heavenly Father.

The Iguaçú River flows through southern Brazil and empties into a plateau that forms a system of waterfalls known worldwide as the Iguaçú Falls—one of the most beautiful and impressive of God’s creations on earth, considered one of the seven wonders of the world. A colossal volume of water flows into a single river and then separates, forming hundreds of unparalleled waterfalls. Metaphorically speaking, this phenomenal system of waterfalls is a reflection of God’s family on earth, for we share the same spiritual origin and substance, derived from our divine heritage and kinship. However, each of us flows in different cultures, ethnicities, and nationalities, with different opinions, experiences, and feelings. Despite this, we move forward as God’s children and as brothers and sisters in Christ, without losing our divine connection, which makes us a unique people and a beloved community.27
My dear brothers and sisters, may we align our hearts and minds with the knowledge and testimony that we are all equal before God, that we are all fully endowed with the same eternal potential and inheritance. May we enjoy more the spiritual kinship that exists between us and value the different attributes and varied gifts we all have. If we do so, I promise you that we will flow in our own way, as does the water of the Iguaçú Falls, without losing our divine connection that identifies us as a peculiar people, “the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God.”28
I testify to you that as we continue to flow this way during our mortal life, a new day will begin with a new light that will brighten our lives and illuminate wonderful opportunities to value more, and be more fully blessed by, the diversity created by God among His children.29 We will surely become instruments in His hands to promote respect and dignity among all His sons and daughters. God lives. Jesus is the Savior of the world. President Nelson is the prophet of God in our day. I bear witness of these truths in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 94; see also General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 38.6.14, Gospel Library.


See Doctrine and Covenants 76:24.


See Genesis 1:26–27; Mosiah 7:27; Ether 3:14–17; Moses 2:26–28; 6:9–10.


See 2 Nephi 26:33; see also M. Russell Ballard, “Hope in Christ,” Liahona, May 2021, 53.


Acts 17:26; see also Doctrine and Covenants 93:33–35.


Ephesians 4:6.


See Mosiah 18:21.


4 Nephi 1:16–18.


Russell M. Nelson, “We Are All Children of God,” Inspiration (blog), May 25, 2021, ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See “Punta del Este Declaration on Human Dignity for Everyone Everywhere,” 2018.


See “President Nelson Shares Social Post about Racism and Calls for Respect for Human Dignity” (news release, June 1, 2020), newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See Ephesians 4:2–3.


See Boyd Matheson, “How You Know When a New Day Has Dawned in 2020,” Deseret News, Dec. 30, 2019, deseret.com.


Acts 10:38.


See 2 Nephi 26:33.


See John 4:4.


John 4:7.


John 4:9.


See John 4:25.


John 4:29; see also John 4:6–30.


See 2 Nephi 26:14–30.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Natural Man,” Gospel Library; see also 1 Corinthians 2:14; Mosiah 16:5; Alma 42:7–24.


See “Seek Christlike Attributes,” Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ (2023), 123–38; see also Guide to the Scriptures, “Disciple,” Gospel Library.


See 1 Samuel 16:7.


Abraham Lincoln, “Second Inaugural Address,” Mar. 4, 1865, loc.gov.


See 4 Nephi 1:17; see also Guide to the Scriptures, “Children of Christ,” Gospel Library.


See Martin Luther King Jr., “Facing the Challenge of a New Age,” speech given Dec. 3, 1956.


4 Nephi 1:17.


See Acts 17:26.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Praise to the Man","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Praise to the Man

By President M. Russell Ballard
Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

How abundantly blessed we are to know all that we know because we have Joseph Smith, the prophet of this last dispensation of time.


My dear brothers and sisters, I’m honored to be with you this morning. I pray that the Lord will bless me.
My eyes aren’t what they used to be. I went and saw the eye doctor, and I said, “I can’t see the teleprompter.”
And she said, “Well, your eyes are old. They’re not going to change.”
So, I’ll do the best I can.
I’d like to share with you some things that have been in my mind. I have seemed to have the Prophet Joseph in my mind the last few months. I’ve sat and contemplated his glorious responsibility in becoming the prophet of this, the dispensation of the fulness of times.
I think how grateful we are as members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that Joseph Smith, a boy who desired to know what he needed to do to have his sins forgiven, found the courage to go into a grove of trees near his home in Palmyra, New York, and there kneel in prayer and—by his own statement—pray out loud for the first time (see Joseph Smith—History 1:14).
On that occasion, as Joseph got on his knees in what we call the Sacred Grove, the heavens opened. Two personages, brighter than the noonday sun, appeared before him. One spoke to him and said, “[Joseph,] this is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!” (Joseph Smith—History 1:17). Thus began the Restoration of the fulness of the everlasting gospel of Jesus Christ.
Because Jesus, our Savior and our Redeemer, spoke to the boy Joseph and opened up this dispensation of time that we now live in, we sing, “Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah!” (“Praise to the Man,” Hymns, no. 27). We thank the Lord for Joseph Smith and for his courage to go into that grove of trees in 1820, near his home in Palmyra, New York.
I’ve been thinking about all of the marvelous things that we know and all of the things that we have. My beloved brothers and sisters, my testimony to you this morning is how abundantly blessed we are to know all that we know because we have Joseph Smith, the prophet of this last dispensation of time.
We have an understanding of the purpose of life, of who we are.
We know who God is; we know who the Savior is because we have Joseph, who went into a grove of trees as a boy, seeking forgiveness for his sins.
I think it’s one of the most glorious and wonderful things that anybody in this world can know—that our Heavenly Father and the Lord Jesus Christ have revealed Themselves in this latter day and that Joseph has been raised up to restore the fulness of the everlasting gospel of Jesus Christ.
We have the Book of Mormon. What a marvelous and wonderful gift the Book of Mormon is to the membership of the Church. It is another witness, another testament that Jesus is the Christ. We have it because Joseph was worthy to go get the plates, was inspired by heaven to translate them by the gift and power of God and to give the book to the world.
Though my message this morning is simple, it’s deep, and it’s full of love for the Prophet Joseph Smith and for all of those, my brothers and sisters, who have sustained him and were willing to sustain him in his youth.
I would like to pay tribute this morning to his mother. I’ve always thought how wonderful it was that when Joseph came home from that experience in the Sacred Grove and told his mother what had happened, Lucy Mack Smith believed him.
I’m grateful for his father and his brothers and his sisters and his family, who sustained him in this tremendous responsibility that the Lord placed upon him to become the prophet to restore the fulness of the everlasting gospel of Jesus Christ once again upon the earth.
So my testimony this morning is that I know that Jesus Christ is the Savior and Redeemer of the world. I also know that our Heavenly Father and the Lord Jesus Christ appeared and spoke to Joseph and prepared him to become the prophet.
I marvel, and I’m sure that many of you do too, at how blessed we are to know what we know about our purpose in life, why we are here, what we should be trying to do and accomplish in our daily lives. We’re in the process of trying to prepare ourselves, a day at a time, to be a little better, be a little kinder, be a little more prepared for that day, which will surely come, when we shall pass back into the presence of our Heavenly Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

That’s getting a little closer for me. I’ll soon be 95. My children tell me they think I’m a lot older than that some days, but that’s OK. I’m doing the best I can.
But for nearly 50 years, brothers and sisters, I’ve had the privilege to cover the world in my assignment as a General Authority of the Church. It’s been a wonderful blessing. I think I’ve gotten pretty close to almost all parts of the world. I’ve met with members of the Church all over the world.
Oh, how I love you. What a glorious experience that’s been—to look into your faces, be in your presence, and feel your love that you have for the Lord and for the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
May our Heavenly Father watch over us now and bless all the proceedings of the conference. And may we have the Spirit of the Lord well up in our hearts, and may our love for the gospel of Jesus Christ—our beloved Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ—increase as we strive to serve Him and keep His commandments and be more like Him as a result of our attending general conference. Wherever you are in this world, may God bless you. May the Spirit of the Lord be with us. May we feel the power of heaven as we worship together in this session of conference.
I leave you my witness and testimony that I know that Jesus is the Christ. He is our Savior, our Redeemer. He is our best friend. In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.

----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Walking in Covenant Relationship with Christ","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Walking in Covenant Relationship with Christ

By President Emily Belle Freeman
Young Women General President

The One who was bruised and broken for us will allow mortality to do its work in us, but He doesn’t ask us to face those challenges alone.


I was introduced to a trail in Israel by my good friend Ilan. “It’s called the Jesus Trail,” he said, “because it’s the path from Nazareth to Capernaum that many believe Jesus walked.” I decided right then and there I wanted to walk that trail, so I began planning a trip to Israel.
Six weeks before the trip, I broke my ankle. My husband worried about the injury; my greatest concern was how I would walk the Jesus Trail one month later. I am stubborn by nature, so I didn’t cancel the plane tickets.
I remember meeting our Israeli guide that beautiful June morning. I hopped out of the van and then pulled out a set of crutches and a knee scooter. Mya, our guide, took one look at my cast and said, “Uh, I don’t think you can walk this trail in that condition.”
“Maybe not,” I replied. “But there’s nothing that prevents me from trying.” She gave a slight nod, and we began. I love her for that, for believing I could walk the trail broken.
I navigated the steep path and the boulders for a time on my own. Then, moved by the sincerity of my commitment, Mya pulled out a thin rope, tied it to the handlebars of my scooter, and began to pull. She pulled me up the hills, through lemon orchards, and along the banks of the Sea of Galilee. At the journey’s end, I expressed gratitude for my sweet guide, who had helped me accomplish something I could have never accomplished on my own.
When the Lord called Enoch to journey through the land and testify of Him, Enoch hesitated.1 He was just a lad, slow of speech. How could he walk that path in his condition? He was blinded by what was broken in him. The Lord’s answer to what hindered him was simple and immediate: “Walk with me.”2 Like Enoch, we must remember that the One who was bruised and broken for us3 will allow mortality to do its work in us, but He doesn’t ask us to face those challenges alone.4 No matter the heaviness of our story or the current course of our path, He will invite us to walk with Him.5
Think of the young man in a spot of trouble who met the Lord in a wilderness place. Jacob had journeyed far from home. In the dark of night, he had a dream that not only contained a ladder but also held significant covenant promises, including what I like to call the five-finger promise.6 On that night, the Lord stood beside Jacob, introduced Himself as the God of Jacob’s father, and then promised:


I am with you.


I will keep you safe.


I will bring you home again.


I will not leave you.


I will keep my promise to you.7


Jacob had a choice to make. He could choose to live his life simply acquainted with the God of his father, or he could choose to live life in committed covenant relationship with Him. Years later, Jacob testified of a life lived within the Lord’s covenant promises: “God … answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went.”8 Just as He did for Jacob, the Lord will answer each of us in our day of distress if we choose to tether our life with His. He has promised to walk with us in the way.
We call this walking the covenant path—a path that begins with the covenant of baptism and leads to deeper covenants we make in the temple. Perhaps you hear those words and think of checkboxes. Maybe all you see is a path of requirements. A closer look reveals something more compelling. A covenant is not only about a contract, although that is important. It’s about a relationship. President Russell M. Nelson taught, “The covenant path is all about our relationship with God.”9
Consider a marriage covenant. The wedding date is important, but equally important is the relationship forged through the life lived together afterward. The same is true with a covenant relationship with God. Conditions have been set, and there will be expectations along the way. And yet He invites each of us to come as we are able, with full purpose of heart, and to “press forward”10 with Him at our side, trusting that His promised blessings will come. Scripture reminds us that often those blessings come in His own time and in His own way: 38 years,11 12 years,12 immediately.13 As your trail will demand, so His succor will be.14
His is a mission of condescension. Jesus Christ will meet us where we are as we are. This is the why of the garden, the cross, and the tomb. The Savior was sent to help us overcome.15 But staying where we are won’t bring the deliverance we seek. Just as He didn’t leave Jacob there in the dirt, the Lord doesn’t intend to leave any of us where we are.
His is also a mission of ascension. He will work within us16 to lift us up to where He is and, in the process, enable us to become as He is. Jesus Christ came to lift us.17 He wants to help us become. This is the why of the temple.
We must remember: it’s not the course alone that will exalt us; it’s the companion—our Savior. And this is the why of covenant relationship.
When I was in Israel, I visited the Western Wall. For the Jews, this is the most holy site in Israel. It is all that remains of their temple. Most wear their finest when they visit this sacred place; their choice of garment is a symbol of their devotion to their relationship with God. They visit the wall to read scripture, to worship, and to pour out their prayers. The plea for a temple in their midst consumes their every day, their every prayer, this longing for a house of covenant. I admire their devotion.
When I returned home from Israel, I listened more closely to the conversations around me regarding covenants. I noticed people asking, Why should I walk a covenant path? Do I need to enter a house for making covenants? Why do I wear the holy garment? Should I invest in a covenant relationship with the Lord? The answer to these good and important questions is simple: it depends on what degree of relationship you want to experience with Jesus Christ.18 Each of us will have to discover our own response to those deeply personal questions.
Here is mine: I walk this path as a “beloved daughter of heavenly parents,”19 divinely known20 and deeply trusted.21 As a child of the covenant, I am eligible to receive promised22 blessings. I have chosen23 to walk with the Lord. I have been called24 to stand as a witness of Christ. When the path feels overwhelming, I am strengthened25 with enabling grace. Each time I cross the threshold of His house, I experience deeper covenant relationship with Him. I am sanctified26 with His Spirit, endowed27 with His power, and set apart28 to build His kingdom. Through a process of daily repentance and weekly partaking of the sacrament, I am learning to become steadfast29 and to go about doing good.30 I walk this path with Jesus Christ, looking forward to the promised day when He will come again. Then I will be sealed His31 and lifted up as a holy32 daughter of God.
This is why I walk the covenant path.
This is why I cling to covenant promises.
This is why I enter His covenant house.
This is why I wear the holy garment as a constant reminder.
Because I want to live in committed covenant relationship with Him.
Perhaps you do too. Begin where you are.33 Don’t let your condition hinder you. Remember, pace or placement on the path are not as important as progress.34 Ask someone you trust who is on the covenant path to introduce you to the Savior they have come to know. Learn more of Him. Invest in the relationship by entering into covenant with Him. It doesn’t matter your age or your condition. You can walk with Him.
After we finished walking the Jesus Trail, Mya did not take back her rope. She left it tied to my scooter. For the next few days, my teenage nephews and their friend took turns pulling me through the streets of Jerusalem.35 They made sure I did not miss out on the stories of Jesus. I was reminded of the strength of the rising generation. We can learn from you. You have a genuine desire to know the guide, Jesus Christ. You trust the strength of the rope that tethers us to Him. You are unusually gifted in gathering others to Him.36
Thankfully, we walk this path together, calling out encouragement along the way.37 As we share our personal experience with Christ, we will strengthen personal devotion. Of this I bear witness in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


The people of Enoch had gone astray, they had denied Christ, and they “sought their own counsels in the dark” (see Moses 6:27–28). In a time when he had lost faith in humanity, Enoch turned to the Lord for guidance. This call to Enoch is the same call the Lord extends to all of us: “Walk with me” (Moses 6:34; see also Matthew 11:28). But maybe, like Enoch, you are unsure if you can walk this path in your condition. Maybe you feel hindered in some way. Perhaps the very reason we need to walk the covenant path is because of our condition, because we are hindered in some way and we need His help.


See Moses 6:23–34.


See “Jesus of Nazareth, Savior and King,” Hymns, no. 181.


See Ether 12:27.


See Matthew 11:28–30.


My girls want to whisper this five-finger promise to their children (my grandchildren) every morning—a reminder of a Father in Heaven who is divinely aware of each of His children.


See Genesis 28:10–22. The Abrahamic covenant was also a significant emphasis of that night. These elements of the Abrahamic covenant play a central role in our lives and in the gospel of Jesus Christ: (1) the promise of an eternal inheritance (verse 13); (2) eternal posterity (verse 14); and (3) the blessing and responsibility to bless all nations of the earth (verse 14).


Genesis 35:3; emphasis added. Jacob’s parents directed him to leave home to distance himself from Esau, who had threatened to kill him, and to have the opportunity to meet someone whom he could marry in the covenant (see Genesis 27:41–45; 28:1–2, 5).


Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” Liahona, Oct. 2022, 11.


2 Nephi 31:20.


See John 5:5, the story of the pool of Bethesda.


See Mark 5:25, the story of the woman who touched Christ’s robe.


See Matthew 14:31, the story of Peter walking on water.


See “How Firm a Foundation,” Hymns, no. 85.


See 1 Nephi 11:16–33.


See Philippians 1:6; 2:13; Words of Mormon 1:7.


See John 12:32.


A path is often defined by key characteristics such as guideposts or mile markers. It is a way to make sure you are on the right trail or making progress in the right direction. A relationship also can be defined by key characteristics. Some of these include expectation (see Jeremiah 29:11; Doctrine and Covenants 132:7); submissiveness (see Mosiah 3:19; Alma 7:23; 13:28); humility; obedience; patience; yielding; trust (see Proverbs 3:5); and love (see Romans 8:31–39).


“Young Women Theme,” Gospel Library, emphasis added; see also Bonnie H. Cordon, “Beloved Daughters,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 67.


See John 4:1–29, the story of the woman at the well.


See Alma 38:1–3.


See Numbers 6:23–27.


See Joshua 24:22.


See Doctrine and Covenants 25:3, the story of Emma Smith.


See 1 Corinthians 15:9–10.


See 2 Chronicles 20:1–17, especially verse 14.


See Doctrine and Covenants 109:1–46.


See 1 Samuel 16:11–13.


See Esther 4:16, the story of Esther.


See Acts 10:38.


See Isaiah 43:1–5.


See Deuteronomy 28:1–9.


A good friend reminded me that a call to action is important in any relationship.


Conversation with Kristen Olsen, Sept. 2023.


To Mack Oswald, Camden Oswald, Ashton Matheny, and Jack Butler, thanks for pulling me along.


“You will remember that I have invited the youth of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to enlist in the Lord’s youth battalion to participate in the greatest cause on earth today—the gathering of Israel. I issued this invitation to our youth because they are unusually gifted in reaching out to others and sharing what they believe in a convincing fashion” (Russell M. Nelson, “Witnesses, Aaronic Priesthood Quorums, and Young Women,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 39).


“The kingdom of God … is like a besieged city surrounded on all sides by death. Each man has his place on the wall to defend and no one can stand where another stands, but ‘nothing prevents us from calling encouragement to one another’” (Martin Luther, in Lewis William Spitz, The Renaissance and Reformation Movements [1987], 335). 



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Bearing Witness of Jesus Christ in Word and Actions","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Bearing Witness of Jesus Christ in Word and Actions

By Elder Adilson de Paula Parrella
Of the Seventy

As we strive to live our lives in harmony with the gospel of Jesus Christ, our conduct will be a living testimony of our Redeemer.


At baptism one of the promises that we make is that we are willing to take upon us the name of Jesus Christ. My purpose today is to remind us that we can show God that we take the name of His Son upon ourselves by bearing testimony in word and deed, as often as we can, that Jesus is the Christ.
When ministering to and teaching the people in the Americas after His Resurrection, the Savior declared:
“Have they not read the scriptures, which say ye must take upon you the name of Christ, which is my name? For by this name shall ye be called at the last day;
“And whoso taketh upon him my name, and endureth to the end, the same shall be saved at the last day.”1
President Russell M. Nelson has taught us that “taking the Savior’s name upon us includes declaring and witnessing to others—through our actions and our words—that Jesus is the Christ.”2
As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we have the blessing and privilege to stand as witnesses of the Lord and His name everywhere we are.3 As we strive to live our lives in harmony with the gospel of Jesus Christ, our conduct will be a living testimony of our Redeemer and His name. Moreover, we witness of Christ in word by sharing with others what we believe, feel, or know of Jesus Christ.
When we humbly share our testimony of the Lord through our words and actions, the Holy Ghost confirms4 to those with real intent, open hearts, and willing minds that Jesus is indeed the Christ.5
I would like to share two recent and inspiring examples of members who show God that they take the name of Jesus Christ upon themselves by talking of Him and bearing pure witness of the Lord in Church meetings.
First example: When my wife, Elaine, and I went to Spain in 2022, we attended Sunday meetings in a small unit of the Church there. As I sat on the stand and my wife in the congregation, I noticed that she sat by an older woman. When the sacrament meeting ended, I walked toward Elaine and asked her to introduce me to her new friend. She did so and indicated that this woman, who was not a member of the Church, had been visiting the Church for about two years. When I heard that, I asked this God-fearing woman what made her come back and attend our meetings for such an extended period. The woman lovingly replied, “I like to come here because you speak of Jesus Christ in your meetings.”
Clearly, members of the Church in that unit in Spain talked, taught, and testified of Christ in their meetings.
Second example: After serving in the Brazil Area, I received a new assignment to serve at Church headquarters. When we moved to Salt Lake City at the end of July of this year, we attended Sunday meetings at our new and wonderful ward. One of these meetings was a fast and testimony meeting. After reverently partaking of the sacrament, members stood up and bore heartfelt testimonies of the Savior one after the other. The meeting was centered on Jesus Christ, and we could palpably feel the Spirit. We were edified, and our faith was strengthened. If friends of the Church, honestly seeking the truth, had been at that meeting, they would have recognized that this is the Church of Jesus Christ.
What a blessing to see that our Church meetings are choice opportunities for us to testify of Christ and signal to God that we rejoice in taking His Son’s name upon us.
Now, let me mention a powerful example of taking upon us the name of Jesus Christ by bearing testimony of Him through actions.
Last August, I accompanied Elder Jonathan S. Schmitt to the open house of the Feather River California Temple in Yuba City. There I had the blessing of guiding groups on a tour of the temple. One of these groups included a member of the Church, Virgil Atkinson, and seven friends of other faiths. Toward the end of the visit, in a temple sealing room, Brother Atkinson was emotional as he expressed his love for his friends who had come to the temple that day. Almost immediately after he had done so, a woman in the group stood up and said, “We all love Virgil. He has never imposed his faith on us. But he is not shy about it either. He just lives what he believes.”
Over the years, Brother Atkinson’s Christlike living served as a powerful testimony to his friends. His example is strong evidence that he has taken upon himself the name of Christ.
In conclusion, let me share the lesson I learned about how to take upon us the name of Christ and testify of Him by using the correct name of the Church.
President Nelson, God’s living prophet, in a 2018 general conference address titled “The Correct Name of the Church,” said: “It is a correction. It is the command of the Lord. Joseph Smith did not name the Church restored through him; neither did Mormon. It was the Savior Himself who said, ‘For thus shall my church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints’ [Doctrine and Covenants 115:4].”6
We all left general conference that day committed and determined to follow the prophet and to use the revealed name of the Church from then on. I really watched myself to make sure I used the correct name of the Church. The first few times, I had to be very conscious and not allow myself to go back to the old ways. After the first attempts, I felt more comfortable with using the revealed name of the Church. I admit that many times, I would speak the name of the Church quickly. I felt concerned that people would not pay attention to the Church’s full name and that they might think it to be a bit long.
However, I later realized that speaking the full name of the Church with intent gave me valuable opportunities to speak the name of Jesus Christ and in fact bear testimony of the Savior by declaring His name in the name of His Church. I also noticed that when I spoke the correct name of the Church with others, I more frequently remembered Jesus Christ and felt His influence in my life.
By following the prophet, we can all learn to testify more of Jesus Christ by using the correct name of the Church, thus taking upon us more fully the name of the Lord.
This Sabbath morning, I gladly testify that President Nelson is God’s living prophet and that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is Christ’s restored Church. I humbly witness of the Son of God and His divinity. He is God’s Firstborn and Only Begotten Son, our Savior and Redeemer, the Emmanuel.7 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


3 Nephi 27:5–6.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Correct Name of the Church,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 88: “Taking the Savior’s name upon us includes declaring and witnessing to others—through our actions and our words—that Jesus is the Christ.”


See Mosiah 18:9.


See 2 Nephi 31:18.


See Alma 12:10; Moroni 10:4–5; Doctrine and Covenants 64:34.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Correct Name of the Church,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 87: “Instead, it is a correction. It is the command of the Lord. Joseph Smith did not name the Church restored through him; neither did Mormon. It was the Savior Himself who said, ‘For thus shall my church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints’ [Doctrine and Covenants 115:4].”


See Matthew 1:23; Luke 2:11; Doctrine and Covenants 18:11; 20:21; 76:22–24; 93:21.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Be Peaceable Followers of Christ","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Be Peaceable Followers of Christ

By Elder Quentin L. Cook
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

I testify that “peaceable followers of Christ” will find personal peace in this life and a glorious heavenly reunion.


We live in a time when “peaceable followers of Christ”1 experience unique challenges. Those who believe in, humbly worship, and testify of Jesus Christ have always experienced trials, tribulation, and adversities.2 My wife, Mary, and I are no different. In the last few years, we have seen many of our close high school friends, missionary companions, some of their precious wives, and former work associates pass away, or, as President Russell M. Nelson has said, graduate to the other side of the veil. We have seen some who were raised in faith and belief step off the covenant path.
Sadly, we lost a grandson of 23 who died in a tragic single-car accident. Some dear friends, family members, and colleagues have also endured significant health challenges.
Whenever trials occur, we mourn and strive to bear one another’s burdens.3 We lament things that will not be accomplished and songs that will not be sung.4 Bad things happen to good people on this mortal journey. The devastating fires on Maui in Hawaii, southern Chile, and Canada are examples of horrendous events good people sometimes face.
We read in the Pearl of Great Price that the Lord revealed to Abraham the eternal nature of spirits. Abraham learned of our pre-earth life, foreordination, the Creation, the choosing of a Redeemer, and this mortal life, which is the second estate of man.5 The Redeemer declared:
“We will make an earth whereon these may dwell;
“And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them.”6
Now all of us are here in the second estate of our journey of progression toward a kingdom of glory as part of God’s great plan of salvation and exaltation. We are blessed with agency and subject to the trials of mortality. This is the time allotted for us to prepare to meet God.7 We are blessed to know of Jesus Christ and His role in the plan. We have the privilege to become members of His restored Church—The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. As peaceable followers of Christ, we strive to live His commandments. It has never been easy for His followers. Nor was it easy for the Savior to faithfully fulfill His mortal mission.
The scriptures are clear: many will succumb to an “eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die” approach.8 Other nonbelievers retreat to somber enclaves of like-minded participants who advocate for the next “new thing”9 and philosophies of men.10 They know not where to find the truth.11
Peaceable followers of Christ do not follow either path. We are warm, engaged members of the communities where we live. We love, share, and invite all of God’s children to follow Christ’s teachings.12 We follow the counsel of our beloved prophet, President Nelson: we choose the role of “a peacemaker, now and always.”13 This inspired approach is consistent with both the scriptures and prophetic direction.
In 1829 the restored Church had not yet been organized, nor had the Book of Mormon been published. A small group of struggling people, moved by the Spirit of God, followed the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Lord revealed to Joseph counsel for difficult times: “Fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail.”14 He also counseled them:
“Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not.
“… Be faithful, keep my commandments, and ye shall inherit the kingdom of heaven.”15
Clearly, our heavenly destiny is not altered when we suffer adversity. In Hebrews we are counseled to “come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.”16 Jesus Christ is “the author of eternal salvation.”17
I love the words of Mormon, quoted by his son Moroni, commending “the peaceable followers of Christ … because of your peaceable walk with the children of men.”18
For those of us in the Church striving to be peaceable followers of Christ, a brighter day awaits us as we focus on our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Trials are a part of mortality and occur in everyone’s life throughout the world. This includes major conflicts between countries and individuals.

Church leaders are frequently asked, “Why does a just God allow bad things to happen, especially to good people?” and “Why are those who are righteous and in the Lord’s service not immune from such tragedies?”
We do not know all the answers; however, we do know important principles that allow us to face trials, tribulation, and adversities with faith and confidence in a bright future that awaits each of us. No better example exists in scripture with respect to passing through tribulation than the word of the Lord to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, while he was a prisoner in Liberty Jail.
The Lord in part declared:
“If the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good.
“The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he?
“… Fear not what man can do, for God shall be with you forever and ever.”19
It is clear we have a Father in Heaven who knows and loves us personally and understands our suffering perfectly. His Son, Jesus Christ, is our Savior and Redeemer.
President Russell M. Nelson and President M. Russell Ballard have both strongly emphasized the significance of the new second edition of Preach My Gospel.20 I share their enthusiasm. This new edition, amplifying sacred scripture, powerfully proclaims:
“In His atoning sacrifice, Jesus Christ took upon Himself our pains, afflictions, and infirmities. Because of this, He knows ‘according to the flesh how to succor his people according to their infirmities’ (Alma 7:12; see also verse 11). He invites, ‘Come unto me,’ and as we do, He gives us rest, hope, strength, perspective, and healing (Matthew 11:28; see also verses 29–30).
“As we rely on Jesus Christ and His Atonement, He can help us endure our trials, sicknesses, and pain. We can be filled with joy, peace, and consolation. All that is unfair about life can be made right through the Atonement of Jesus Christ.”21
We can joyfully be peaceable followers of Christ.
Our Father’s plan of happiness for His children includes not only a premortal and mortal life but also a potential for eternal life, including a great and glorious reunion with those we have lost. All wrongs will be righted, and we will see with perfect clarity and faultless perspective and understanding.
Church leaders have compared this perspective with someone walking into the middle of a three-act play.22 Those without knowledge of the Father’s plan do not understand what happened in the first act (or the premortal existence) and the purposes established there; nor do they understand the clarification and resolution that come in the third act, which is the glorious fulfillment of the Father’s plan.
Many do not appreciate that under His loving and comprehensive plan, those who appear to be disadvantaged, through no fault of their own, are not ultimately impacted.23
The scriptures are clear: peaceable followers of Christ who are righteous, follow the Savior, and keep His commandments will be blessed. One of the most important scriptures for those who are righteous, regardless of their situation in life, is part of King Benjamin’s address to his people. He promises that those who faithfully keep the commandments are blessed in all things in this life and “are received into heaven … [and] dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness.”24
We recognize that almost all of us have experienced physical and spiritual storms in our lives, some devastating. A loving Father in Heaven and His Son, Jesus Christ, who is the head of His restored Church, have provided us scriptures and prophets to prepare us, warn us about dangers, and give us guidance to prepare and protect us. Some directions require immediate action, and some provide protection for many years in the future. The Lord’s preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, section 1, admonishes us to “give heed to the words of the prophets.”25
Section 1 also cautions us, “Prepare ye, prepare ye for that which is to come.”26 The Lord provides His people a chance to prepare for the challenges they will face.
The Lord gave a powerful revelation to President Brigham Young on January 14, 1847, at Winter Quarters.27 This revelation is a classic example of the Lord preparing people for that which is to come. The faithful Saints had begun their exodus to the mountain sanctuary of the Salt Lake Valley. They had successfully built the Nauvoo Temple and received sacred saving ordinances. They had been driven out of Missouri, and their persecutors had driven them out of Nauvoo in a terrible winter season. The revelation to Brigham gave practical counsel on how to prepare for the exodus. The Lord placed special emphasis on taking care of the poor, the widows, the fatherless, and the families of those serving in the Mormon Battalion as the main body of Saints proceeded on their perilous journey.
In addition to providing other advice to live righteously, the Lord emphasized two principles that continue to be applicable today.
First, He encouraged them to “praise the Lord with singing, with music, with dancing, and with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving.”28
Second, the Lord counseled if they were “sorrowful, call on the Lord thy God with supplication, that your souls may be joyful.”29
These two admonitions are great counsel for our own day. Lives full of praise, music, and thanksgiving are uniquely blessed. Being joyful and relying on heavenly help through prayer is a powerful way to be peaceable followers of Christ. Striving always to be of good cheer helps avoid being cast down in spirit.
The final line of a perceptive hymn conveys the ultimate answer in a beautiful fashion: “Earth has no sorrow that heav’n cannot heal.”30
As an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, I testify that “peaceable followers of Christ” will find personal peace in this life and a glorious heavenly reunion. I bear a sure witness of the Savior’s divinity and the reality of His Atonement. He is our Savior and Redeemer. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Moroni 7:3.


See John 16:33.


See Mosiah 18:8–9; see also 2 Nephi 32:7.


See Quentin L. Cook, “The Songs They Could Not Sing,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2011, 104–7.


See the chapter heading for Abraham 3.


Abraham 3:24–25.


See Alma 12:24.


See 2 Nephi 28:7–9.


Acts 17:21.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 96.


See Doctrine and Covenants 123:12.


“Missionaries return home with a love for the people they have served and taught. They are true ambassadors spreading goodwill for the peoples in whose countries they have lived and worked. They are not concerned with income levels and have no racial bias. They are not out to build any worldly kingdoms. They are, in the words of Mormon, ‘the peaceable followers of Christ’ [Moroni 7:3]” (L. Tom Perry, “The Peaceable Followers of Christ,” Ensign, Nov. 1989, 71). 


Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 100.


Doctrine and Covenants 6:34.


Doctrine and Covenants 6:36–37.


Hebrews 4:16.


Hebrews 5:9; see also the chapter heading.


Moroni 7:3–4.


Doctrine and Covenants 122:7–9.


See Scott Taylor, “President Nelson Introduces New Edition of ‘Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ,’” Church News, June 22, 2023, thechurchnews.com; see also Sarah Jane Weaver, “Video: 3 Apostles Talk about the Impact of ‘Preach My Gospel,’” Church News, Aug. 10, 2023, thechurchnews.com.


Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ (2023), 56.


See Boyd K. Packer, “The Play and the Plan” (Church Educational System fireside for young adults, May 7, 1995 [printed 1997]), 2: “In mortality, we are like actors who enter a theater just as the curtain goes up on the second act. We have missed act 1. … ‘And they all lived happily ever after’ is never written into the second act. That line belongs in the third act, when the mysteries are solved and everything is put right.” See also Neal A. Maxwell, All These Things Shall Give Thee Experience (1979), 37: “[God] sees the beginning from the end. … The arithmetic … is something we mortals cannot comprehend. We cannot do the sums because we do not have all the numbers. We are locked in the dimension of time and are contained within the tight perspectives of this second estate.”


Those who die before reaching the age of accountability are saved in the celestial kingdom (see Doctrine and Covenants 137:10). Those who have died without knowledge of the gospel and would have received it if they had been given the opportunity will also be heirs of the celestial kingdom (see Doctrine and Covenants 137:7).


Mosiah 2:41.


Doctrine and Covenants 1:14.


Doctrine and Covenants 1:12.


See Doctrine and Covenants 136.


Doctrine and Covenants 136:28.


Doctrine and Covenants 136:29.


“Come, Ye Disconsolate,” Hymns, no. 115.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Prodigal and the Road That Leads Home","year":"2023","month":"10"}



The Prodigal and the Road That Leads Home

By Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Though choices may have taken you far from the Savior and His Church, the Master Healer stands at the road that leads home, welcoming you.




A Certain Man Had Two Sons

It has been called by some the greatest short story ever told.1 Since it has been translated into thousands of languages across the world, it is quite possible that during the past two millennia, the sun has not set without the story being referenced somewhere in the world.
It was told by Jesus Christ, our Savior and Redeemer, who came to earth “to save that which was lost.”2 He begins with these simple words: “A certain man had two sons.”3
Immediately we learn of a heartbreaking conflict. One son4 tells his father he is through with life at home. He wants his freedom. He wants to leave behind the culture and teachings of his parents. He asks for his share of the inheritance—now.5
Can you imagine what the father felt when he heard this? When he realized that what his son wanted more than anything else was to leave the family and perhaps never return?



The Great Adventure

The son must have felt a thrill of adventure and excitement. At long last, he was on his own. Free from the principles and rules of the culture of his youth, he could finally make his own choices without being influenced by his parents. No more guilt. He could bask in the acceptance of a like-minded community and live life on his own terms.
Arriving in a faraway country, he quickly made new friends and began living the life he had always dreamed of. He must have been a favorite of many, for he spent money freely. His new friends—beneficiaries of his prodigality—did not judge him. They celebrated, applauded, and championed his choices.6
Had there been social media in that time, surely he would have filled pages with animated photos of laughing friends: #Livingmybestlife! #Neverhappier! #Shouldhavedonethislongago!



The Famine

But the party did not last—it rarely does. Two things happened: first, he ran out of money, and second, a famine swept through the land.7
As the problems worsened, he panicked. The once unstoppable, jubilant high roller now could not afford a single meal, let alone a place to stay. How would he survive?
He had been generous to his friends—would they help him now? I can see him asking for a little support—just for now—until he got back on his feet.
The scriptures tell us, “No man gave unto him.”8
Desperate to remain alive, he found a local farmer who hired him to feed swine.9
Extremely hungry now, abandoned and alone, the young man must have wondered how things could have gone so terribly, dreadfully wrong.
It wasn’t just an empty stomach that troubled him. It was an empty soul. He had been so sure that giving in to his worldly desires would make him happy, that moral laws were obstacles to that happiness. Now he knew better. And oh, what a price he had to pay for that knowledge!10
As the physical and spiritual hunger grew, his thoughts returned to his father. Would he help him after all that had happened? Even the humblest of his father’s servants had food to eat and shelter from the storms.
But return to his father?
Never.
Confess to his village that he had squandered his inheritance?
Impossible.
Face the neighbors who surely had warned him that he was disgracing his family and breaking his parents’ hearts? Return to his old friends after boasting of how he was breaking free?
Unbearable.
But the hunger, loneliness, and remorse simply wouldn’t go away—until “he came to himself.”11
He knew what he needed to do.



The Return

Now let us go back to the father, the brokenhearted master of the house. How many hundreds, perhaps thousands, of hours had he spent worrying about his son?
How many times had he looked down the very road his son had taken and relived the penetrating loss he had felt as his son walked away? How many prayers had he offered in the deep of night, pleading with God that his son would be safe, that he would discover truth, that he would return?
And then one day, the father looks out on that lonely road—the road that leads home—and sees a distant figure walking toward him.
Is it possible?
Though the individual is a great way off, the father knows in an instant it is his son.
He runs to him, throws his arms around him, and kisses him.12
“Father,” the son cries out, in words he must have rehearsed a thousand times, “I have sinned against both heaven and you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. All I ask is that you take me in as a hired servant.”13
But the father scarcely lets him finish. Tears in his eyes, he commands his servants: “Bring the finest robe in the house and place it on my son’s shoulders. Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. Make a feast to celebrate. My son has returned!”14



The Celebration

In my office hangs a painting by the German artist Richard Burde. Harriet and I love this painting. It depicts one tender scene from the Savior’s parable in a deeper perspective.


While almost everyone is overjoyed at the son’s return, one is not—his older brother.15
He is carrying some emotional baggage.
He was there when his brother demanded his inheritance. He witnessed firsthand the massive weight of grief on his father.
Ever since his brother left, he has tried to lift his father’s burden. Every day, he has worked to restore his father’s broken heart.
And now the reckless child is back, and people can’t stop lavishing attention on his rebellious brother.
“All these years,” he tells his father, “never once have I refused to do a single thing you asked. Yet in all that time, you never celebrated me.”16
The loving father responds, “Dear son, all that I have is yours! This is not about comparing rewards or celebrations. This is about healing. This is the moment we have been hoping for all these years. Your brother was dead and is alive again! He was lost but now he is found!”17



A Parable for Our Time

My beloved brothers and sisters, dear friends, like all of the Savior’s parables, this one is not just about people living long ago. It’s about you and me, today.
Who among us has not departed from the path of holiness, foolishly thinking we could find more happiness going our own self-centered way?
Who among us has not felt humbled, brokenhearted, and desperate for forgiveness and mercy?
Perhaps some may even have wondered, “Is it even possible to go back? Will I be labeled forever, rejected, and avoided by my former friends? Is it better to just stay lost? How will God react if I try to return?”
This parable gives us the answer.
Our Heavenly Father will run to us, His heart overflowing with love and compassion. He will embrace us; place a robe around our shoulders, a ring on our finger, and sandals on our feet; and proclaim, “Today we celebrate! For my child, who once was dead, has come back to life!”
Heaven will rejoice at our return.



Joy Unspeakable and Full of Glory

May I take a moment now and speak to you individually?
No matter what may have happened in your life, I echo and proclaim the words of my beloved friend and fellow Apostle Elder Jeffrey R. Holland: “It is not possible for you to sink lower than the infinite light of Christ’s [atoning sacrifice] shines.”18
Though choices may have taken you far away from the Savior and His Church, the Master Healer stands at the road that leads home, welcoming you. And we as members of the Church of Jesus Christ seek to follow His example and embrace you as our brothers and sisters, as our friends. We rejoice and celebrate with you.
Your return will not diminish the blessings of others. For the Father’s bounty is infinite, and what is given to one does not in the slightest diminish the birthright of others.19
I do not pretend that coming back is an easy thing to do. I can testify of that. It may, in fact, be the toughest choice you will ever make.
But I bear witness that the moment you decide to return and walk in the way of our Savior and Redeemer, His power will enter your life and transform it.20
Angels in heaven will rejoice.
And so will we, your family in Christ. After all, we know what it’s like to be a prodigal. We all rely daily on the same atoning power of Christ. We know this path, and we will walk with you.
No, our path will not be free from grief, sorrow, or sadness. But we came this far “by the word of Christ with unshaken faith in him, relying wholly upon the merits of him who is mighty to save.” And together we will “press forward with a steadfastness in Christ, having a perfect brightness of hope, and a love of God and of all [people].”21 Together we will “rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory,”22 for Jesus Christ is our strength!23
It is my prayer that each one of us may hear, in this profound parable, the Father’s voice calling us to enter the road that leads home—that we may have the courage to repent, receive forgiveness, and follow the path that leads back to our compassionate and merciful God. Of this I bear witness and leave you my blessing in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Found in Luke 15, the parable is one of three (the lost sheep, the lost coin, and the lost son) that illustrate the value of lost things and the celebration that occurs when that which was lost is found.


Luke 19:10.


Luke 15:11.


This son was probably young. He was unmarried, which may be an indication of his youth, but not so young that he wasn’t able to demand his inheritance and leave home once he had obtained it.


By Jewish law and tradition, the older of two sons was entitled to a two-thirds portion of the father’s inheritance. The younger son, therefore, was entitled to a one-third portion. (See Deuteronomy 21:17.)


See Luke 15:13.


See Luke 15:14.


Luke 15:16.


To the Jews, pigs were considered “unclean” (see Deuteronomy 14:8) and were offensive. Practicing Jews would not have raised swine, which indicates the overseer was a Gentile. It could also suggest how far the young son had traveled to be away from practicing Jews.


Elder Neal A. Maxwell taught: “Of course, it is better if we are humbled ‘because of the word’ rather than being [humbled] by circumstances, yet the latter may do! (see Alma 32:13–14). Famine can induce spiritual hunger” (“The Tugs and Pulls of the World,” Ensign, Nov. 2000, 36; Liahona, Jan. 2001, 45).


Luke 15:17.


See Luke 15:20.


See Luke 15:18–19, 21.


See Luke 15:22–24.


Remember, the younger son had already received his inheritance. For the older one, that meant that everything else belonged to him. Giving anything to the younger son would mean to take it away from the son who stayed.


See Luke 15:29.


See Luke 15:31–32.


Jeffrey R. Holland, “The Laborers in the Vineyard,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2012, 33.


What is given to one does not in the slightest diminish the birthright of others. The Savior taught this doctrine when He offered the parable of the laborers in Matthew 20:1–16.


See Alma 34:31.


2 Nephi 31:19–20.


1 Peter 1:8.


See Psalm 28:7.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"More Than a Hero","year":"2023","month":"10"}



More Than a Hero

By Bishop W. Christopher Waddell
First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric

Jesus Christ is not only our hero; He is our Lord and King, the Savior and Redeemer of mankind.


From 1856 to 1860, thousands of Latter-day Saint pioneers pulled their belongings in handcarts for over 1,000 miles (1,600 km) as they traveled to the Salt Lake Valley. One hundred sixty-seven years ago this very week, on October 4, 1856, President Brigham Young was surprised to learn that two handcart companies, led by Edward Martin and James Willie, were still hundreds of miles from Salt Lake, with winter fast approaching.1 The very next day, not far from where we meet today, President Young stood before the Saints and declared: “Many of our brethren and sisters are on the plains with hand-carts, and they must be brought here. … Go and bring in those people now on the plains.”2
Just two days later, the first rescue parties departed in search of the handcart pioneers.
A member of the Willie company described the desperate situation prior to the arrival of the main rescue team. He shared: “[Just] when it seemed all would be lost, … and there seemed little left to live for, like a thunderbolt out of the clear sky, God answered our prayers. A rescue party, bringing food and supplies … , came into sight. … How we thanked God for our rescue.”3
These rescuers were heroes to the pioneers, putting their own lives at risk in extreme weather conditions to bring as many as possible safely home. One such hero was Ephraim Hanks.
In mid-October, and unaware of the handcart predicament, Hanks was returning to his home in Salt Lake following a trip when, during the night, he was awakened by a voice saying, “The hand-cart people are in trouble and you are wanted; will you go and help them?”
With that question ringing in his mind, he hurried back to Salt Lake City. And upon hearing President Heber C. Kimball call for additional volunteers, Hanks set out the very next day, on his own, to the rescue. Moving quickly, he overtook other rescuers en route, and upon reaching the Martin company, Hanks recalled, “The sight that met my gaze as I entered their camp can never be erased from my memory … [and] was enough to touch the stoutest heart.”4
Ephraim Hanks spent days moving from tent to tent blessing the sick. He related that “in scores of instances, when we administered to the sick, and rebuked the diseases in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, the sufferers would rally at once; they were healed almost instantly.”5 Ephraim Hanks will forever be a hero to those handcart pioneers.
Similar to that remarkable rescue, events which impact our lives and even the course of history are frequently the result of decisions and achievements of individual men and women—great artists, scientists, business leaders, and politicians. These extraordinary individuals are often honored as heroes, with monuments and memorials built to commemorate their exploits.
When I was a young boy, my first heroes were athletes. My earliest memories are of collecting baseball cards with the pictures and statistics of Major League Baseball players. “Hero worship” as a child can be fun and innocent, as when children dress up as their favorite superheroes for Halloween. Although we admire and respect many talented and remarkable men and women for their abilities and contributions, the degree to which they are revered, if taken to an excess, can be the equivalent of the children of Israel worshipping a golden calf in the desert of Sinai.
As adults, what was once innocent childhood fun can become a stumbling block when “hero worship” of politicians, bloggers, influencers, athletes, or musicians causes us to look “beyond the mark”6 and lose sight of what is truly essential.
For the children of Israel, the challenge was not the gold that they brought with them on their journey to the promised land but rather what they allowed the gold to become: an idol, which then became the object of their worship, turning their attention away from Jehovah, who had parted the Red Sea and delivered them from bondage. Their focus on the calf impacted their ability to worship the true God.7
The hero—our hero, now and always—is Jesus Christ, and anything or anyone that distracts us from His teachings, as found in the scriptures and through the words of living prophets, can negatively impact our progress on the covenant path. Before the Creation of this world, we looked to Jesus Christ when it became clear that the plan proposed by Father in Heaven, which included our opportunity to progress and become like Him, was being challenged.
Not only was Jesus Christ the leader in defending our Father’s plan, but He would also play the most crucial role in its implementation. He responded to the Father and volunteered to offer Himself “a ransom for all,”8 to pay a debt that each of us would incur through sin but could not pay on our own.
President Dallin H. Oaks has taught, “[Jesus Christ] has done everything that is essential for our journey through mortality toward the destiny outlined in the plan of our Heavenly Father.”9
In the Garden of Gethsemane, when faced with such an overwhelming task, the Savior bravely stated, “Not my will, but thine, be done,” and proceeded to take upon Himself the combined pains, the sicknesses, and the suffering for the sins of all who would ever live.10 In a perfect act of obedience and commitment, Jesus Christ completed the supreme heroic act in all of creation, culminating in His glorious Resurrection.
In our most recent general conference, President Russell M. Nelson reminded us: “Whatever questions or problems you have, the answer is always found in the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. Learn more about His Atonement, His love, His mercy, His doctrine, and His restored gospel of healing and progression. Turn to Him! Follow Him!”11 And I would add, “Choose Him.”
In our complex world, it can be tempting to turn to society’s heroes in an effort to provide clarity to life when it may seem confusing or overwhelming. We buy the clothes they sponsor, we embrace the politics they espouse, and we follow their suggestions shared on social media. This might be fine for a temporary diversion, but we must be watchful that this form of hero worship does not become our golden calf. Choosing the right hero has eternal consequences.
When our family arrived in Spain to begin our service as mission leaders, we found a framed quote shared by Elder Neal A. Maxwell that has relevance to the heroes we choose to follow. He stated, “If you have not chosen the kingdom of God first, it will in the end make no difference what you have chosen instead.”12 Brothers and sisters, it is by choosing Jesus Christ, the King of kings, that we choose the kingdom of God. Any other choice is the equivalent of choosing the arm of flesh, or a golden calf, and will ultimately fail us.
In the Old Testament book of Daniel, we read the account of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego, who clearly knew which hero to choose—and it was not any of the gods of King Nebuchadnezzar. They confidently declared:
“Our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. … 
“But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image.”13
As the Apostle Paul taught, “There be gods many,”14 and, I may add, heroes many to whom we are invited to bow down, to worship, and to embrace. But just as Daniel’s three friends knew, there is only One who is guaranteed to deliver—because He already has and He always will.
For us on our journey back to the presence of God, to our promised land, it’s not the politician, the musician, the athlete, or the vlogger that is the issue but, rather, choosing to allow them to become the primary objects of our attention and focus in place of our Savior and Redeemer.
We choose Him, Jesus Christ, when we choose to honor His day whether we’re at home or traveling on vacation. We choose Him when we choose His words through the scriptures and the teachings of living prophets. We choose Him when we choose to hold a temple recommend and live worthy of its use. We choose Him when we are peacemakers and refuse to be contentious, “especially when we have differences of opinion.”15
No leader has ever shown more courage, no humanitarian has shown more kindness, no physician has cured more disease, and no artist has been more creative than Jesus Christ.
In a world of heroes, with monuments and museums devoted to the exploits of mortal men and women, there is One who stands above all others. I testify that Jesus Christ is not only our hero; He is our Lord and King, the Savior and Redeemer of mankind. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Studies devoted to the Willie and Martin handcart companies include LeRoy R. and Ann W. Hafen, Handcarts to Zion: The Story of a Unique Western Migration, 1856–1860 (1960); Rebecca Cornwall and Leonard J. Arrington, Rescue of the 1856 Handcart Companies (1981); Howard K. and Cory W. Bangerter, Tragedy and Triumph: Your Guide to the Rescue of the 1856 Willie and Martin Handcart Companies, 2nd ed. (2006); and Andrew D. Olsen, The Price We Paid: The Extraordinary Story of the Willie and Martin Handcart Pioneers (2006).


Brigham Young, “Remarks,” Deseret News, Oct. 15, 1856, 252.


John Oborn, “Brief History of the Life of John Oborn, Pioneer of 1856,” 2, in John Oborn reminiscences and diary, circa 1862–1901, Church History Library, Salt Lake City.


Ephraim K. Hanks’s narrative, in Andrew Jenson, “Church Emigration,” Contributor, Mar. 1893, 202–3.


Hanks, in Jenson, “Church Emigration,” 204.


Jacob 4:14.


See Exodus 32.


1 Timothy 2:6; see also Matthew 20:28.


Dallin H. Oaks, “What Has Our Savior Done for Us?,” Liahona, May 2021, 75.


See Luke 22:39–44.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Answer Is Always Jesus Christ,” Liahona, May 2023, 127.


Attributed to 18th-century English clergyman William Law; quoted in Neal A. Maxwell, “Response to a Call,” Ensign, May 1974, 112.


See Daniel 3:13–18.


1 Corinthians 8:5.


Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 98.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Our Constant Companion","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Our Constant Companion

By President Henry B. Eyring
Second Counselor in the First Presidency

You and I have the opportunity to have the Holy Ghost as our constant companion.


My beloved brothers and sisters, in this conference we have been blessed with an outpouring of revelation. Servants of the Lord Jesus Christ have spoken and will speak words of truth, encouragement, and direction.
I have been touched by the testimonies borne in this conference that the Lord speaks to us personally through the Holy Ghost. As we pray and then heed the Spirit’s promptings, we gain greater insights and blessings to guide us through the increasingly difficult days ahead.
We have heard again President Russell M. Nelson’s warning that “in coming days, it will not be possible to survive spiritually without the guiding, directing, comforting, and constant influence of the Holy Ghost.”1
That prophetic warning has led me to ponder what I might teach my children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren about how to have that crucial guidance in the difficult days ahead for them.
So this message today is a brief letter to my descendants that might help them when I am not with them in the exciting days ahead. I want them to know what I have come to know that could help them.
I have come to better understand what it will take for them to have the constant influence of the Holy Ghost in the days in which they will live. And I have felt impressed to speak today of my personal experience of inviting the Holy Ghost, as nearly as I could, to be my constant companion. My prayer is that I may be able to encourage them.
I would start them to think about and pray about Helaman’s sons, Nephi and Lehi, and the other servants of the Lord laboring with them. They faced fierce opposition. They were serving in a wicked place and had to deal with terrible deceptions. I take courage, and you could, from this one verse from the record of Helaman:
“And in the seventy and ninth year there began to be much strife. But it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi, and many of their brethren who knew concerning the true points of doctrine, having many revelations daily, therefore they did preach unto the people, insomuch that they did put an end to their strife in that same year.”2
This account encourages me, and it could encourage you. Helaman’s sons were taught and guided by a series of experiences with the Holy Ghost. This assures me that we can be taught by and learn from the Spirit line upon line, receiving what we need, and then when we are ready, we will receive more.
I have been encouraged in the same way by the account of Nephi being asked to go back to Jerusalem for the plates of Laban. You remember the choice he made. He said, “I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded.”3
Nephi’s experience with the Holy Ghost on that errand has given me courage many times when I have embarked on tasks I knew were assignments from the Lord but which seemed far beyond my past experience and beyond what I saw as my capacity.
You remember what Nephi said about his experience: “And it was by night; and I caused that [my brothers] should hide themselves without the walls. And after they had hid themselves, I, Nephi, crept into the city and went forth towards the house of Laban.”
He goes on to say, “And I was led by the Spirit, not knowing beforehand the things which I should do.”4
I have been encouraged by knowing that Nephi was guided by the Spirit minute by minute through the night on the Lord’s errand.
We need, and you will need, the constant companionship of the Holy Ghost. Now, we desire it, yet we know from experience that it is not easy to achieve. We each think and say and do things in our daily lives that can offend the Spirit.
When that happens, as it will, we may feel disapproval from the Lord. And we may be tempted to feel we are alone. It is important to remember the sure promise we receive each week as we repent and partake of the sacrament: “That they may always have his Spirit to be with them.”5
If you have felt the influence of the Holy Ghost today, you may take it as a sweet evidence that the Atonement is working in your life.
As Elder Jeffrey R. Holland has said: “Whenever these moments of our extremity come, we must not succumb to the fear that God has abandoned us or that He does not hear our prayers. He does hear us. He does see us. He does love us.”6
That assurance has helped me. When I feel distant from the Lord, when answers to my prayers seem delayed, I have learned to follow the counsel of President Nelson to review my life for opportunities to repent. He reminds us, “Daily repentance is the pathway to purity, and purity brings power.”7
If you find yourself having difficulty in feeling the Holy Ghost, you might ponder whether there is anything for which you might repent and receive forgiveness.8 You can pray with faith to know what to do to be cleansed and thus more nearly qualify for that constant companionship of the Holy Ghost.
If you want to receive the companionship of the Holy Ghost, you must want it for the right reasons. Your purposes must be the Lord’s purposes. If your motives are too selfish, you will find it difficult to receive and sense the promptings of the Spirit.
The key for me and for you is to want what the Savior wants. Our motives need to be driven by the pure love of Christ. Our prayers need to be “All I want is what you want. Thy will be done.”
I try to remember the Savior’s sacrifice and His love for me. Then, when I pray to Heavenly Father to give thanks, I feel love and assurance that my prayers are heard and that I will receive whatever is best for me and those I love. It strengthens my testimony.
Of all the things of which the Holy Ghost testifies, the most precious for us is that Jesus is the Christ, the living Son of God. The Savior promised, “When the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me.”9
Years ago I received a phone call from a distraught mother. She told me that her daughter had moved far from home. She sensed from the little contact she had with her daughter that something was terribly wrong. She pleaded with me to help.
I found out who the daughter’s home teacher was. You can tell by that name that it was a long time ago. I called him. He was young. Yet he told me that he and his companion both had been awakened in the night with not only concern for the daughter but with inspiration that she was about to make choices that would bring sadness and misery. With only that inspiration of the Spirit, they went to see her.
At first she did not want to tell them about her situation. Under inspiration, they pleaded with her to repent and choose the path the Lord had for her. She realized then, I believe by the Spirit, that the only way they could have known what they knew about her life was from God. A mother turned her loving concerns over to Heavenly Father and the Savior. The Holy Ghost had been sent to those home teachers because they were willing to serve the Lord. They had followed the counsel and promise found in the Doctrine and Covenants:
“Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven.
“The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever.”10
I testify that the Lord has kept His promise. The Holy Ghost is being sent to the faithful covenant members of the Church of Jesus Christ. Now, your experiences will be unique, and the Spirit will guide in the way best suited to your faith and capacity to receive revelation for you and for those you love and serve. I pray with all my heart that your confidence will grow.
I bear my witness that God the Father lives. He loves you. He hears your every prayer. Jesus Christ did pray to the Father to send the Holy Ghost to guide, comfort, and testify of truth to us. The Father and His Beloved Son appeared to Joseph Smith in a grove of trees. The Prophet Joseph Smith translated the Book of Mormon by the gift and power of God.
Heavenly messengers restored priesthood keys. President Russell M. Nelson is the prophet of God for all the earth.
As a witness of Jesus Christ, I know that He lives and He leads His Church. You and I have the opportunity to have the Holy Ghost as our constant companion and to have those truths confirmed as we remember and love the Savior, repent, and ask for His love to be in our hearts. I pray that we may have that blessing and the companionship of the Holy Spirit this day and every day of our lives. I love you. In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Russell M. Nelson, “Revelation for the Church, Revelation for Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 96.


Helaman 11:23.


1 Nephi 3:7.


1 Nephi 4:5–6.


Doctrine and Covenants 20:77.


Jeffrey R. Holland, “Lessons from Liberty Jail” (Brigham Young University devotional, Sept. 7, 2008), 5, speeches.byu.edu.


Russell M. Nelson, “We Can Do Better and Be Better,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 68.


“An inability to feel the Spirit, or a general feeling of apathy or numbness, [can also be] a symptom of poor mental health” (“At times I have difficulty feeling the Spirit because I feel numb … ,” in “Mental Health: Help for Me,” Life Help, Gospel Library). If you experience difficulties with your mental or emotional health, please be assured of Heavenly Father’s love for you, and continue to pray to Him and trust in Him.


John 15:26.


Doctrine and Covenants 121:45–46.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Jesus Christ Is the Treasure","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Jesus Christ Is the Treasure

By Elder Dale G. Renlund
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Focus on Jesus Christ. He is our Savior and Redeemer, the “mark” to whom we should look, and our greatest treasure.


In 1907 a wealthy Englishman named George Herbert, the fifth Earl of Carnarvon,1 moved to Egypt and took up an interest in archaeology. He approached a well-known Egyptologist, Howard Carter, and proposed a partnership. Carter would oversee their archaeological excavations, and Carnarvon would provide the funding.
Together they successfully explored a variety of locations. Then they received permission to excavate in the Valley of the Kings, located near modern-day Luxor, where the tombs of many pharaohs had been found. They decided to look for the tomb of King Tutankhamun. Tutankhamun had ascended to the throne of Egypt more than 3,000 years earlier and reigned for 10 years before his unexpected death.2 He was known to have been buried in the Valley of the Kings,3 but the location of his tomb was unknown. 
Carter and Carnarvon spent five years unsuccessfully searching for Tutankhamun’s tomb. Eventually Carnarvon informed Carter that he was finished with the fruitless quest. Carter pleaded for just one more season of excavation, and Carnarvon relented and agreed to the funding. 
Carter realized that the entire floor of the Valley of the Kings had been methodically excavated—except the area of their own base camp. Within a few days of digging there, they found the first steps leading down to the tomb.4
When Carter eventually peered into the antechamber of Tutankhamun’s tomb, he saw gold everywhere. After three months of cataloging the contents of the antechamber, they opened the sealed burial chamber in February 1923—100 years ago. This was the most famous archaeological find of the 20th century. 
During those years of ineffectual searching, Carter and Carnarvon had overlooked what was literally under their feet. Some five centuries before the Savior’s birth, the Book of Mormon prophet Jacob referred to taking for granted or undervaluing what is nearby as “looking beyond the mark.” Jacob foresaw that the people of Jerusalem would not recognize the promised Messiah when He came. Jacob prophesied that they would be a “people [who] despised the words of plainness … and [would seek] for things that they could not understand. Wherefore, because of their blindness, which blindness [would come] by looking beyond the mark, they must needs fall.”5 In other words, they would stumble.
Jacob’s prediction proved accurate. During Jesus’s mortal ministry, many looked beyond the mark, beyond Him. They looked past the Savior of the world. Instead of recognizing His role in fulfilling Heavenly Father’s plan, they condemned and crucified Him. They looked and waited for someone else to bring them salvation. 
Like those people in Jerusalem, and like Carter and Carnarvon, we too can be prone to look beyond the mark. We need to guard against this tendency lest we miss Jesus Christ in our lives and fail to recognize the many blessings He offers us. We need Him. We are counseled to rely “wholly upon the merits of him who is mighty to save.”6
He is our mark. If we incorrectly imagine that there is a need for something beyond what He offers, we deny or diminish the scope and power He can have in our lives. He has claimed the rights of mercy and extends that mercy to us.7 He is the ultimate “source [to whom we should] look for a remission of [our] sins.”8 He is our Advocate with the Father and champions what the Father has wanted all along: for us to return to Him as inheritors in His kingdom. We need to, in the words of the prophet Alma, “cast about [our] eyes and begin to believe in the Son of God, that he will come to redeem his people, and that he shall suffer and die to atone for [our] sins; and that he shall rise again from the dead, which shall bring to pass the resurrection.”9 Jesus Christ is our treasure.
The Savior has given us many ways to focus on Him intentionally, including the daily opportunity to repent. Sometimes we undervalue how great this offered blessing is. When I was eight years old, I was baptized by my father. Afterward, I held his hand as we were going to cross a busy street. I was not paying attention and stepped from the curb just as a big truck came rumbling by. My father jerked me back, out of the street and onto the curb. Had he not done so, I would have been hit by the truck. Knowing my own mischievous nature, I thought, “Maybe it would have been better for me to be killed by the truck because I’ll never be as clean as I am now right after my baptism.” 
As an eight-year-old, I had mistakenly presumed that the water of baptism washed away sins. Not so. In the years since my baptism, I have learned that sins are cleansed by the power of Jesus Christ through His atoning sacrifice as we make and keep the baptismal covenant.10 Then, through the gift of repentance, we can remain clean. I have also learned that the sacrament brings a powerful virtuous cycle into our lives, enabling us to retain a remission of our sins.11 
Just like the treasure that was under the feet of Carter and Carnarvon, the treasured blessings of the sacrament are available to us each time we attend sacrament meeting. We are promised that the Holy Ghost will be our constant companion if we approach the sacrament the way a new convert approaches baptism and confirmation, with a broken heart and contrite spirit and a determination to live up to that baptismal covenant. The Holy Ghost blesses us with His sanctifying power so that we can always retain a remission of our sins, week in and week out.12 
Our spiritual foundation is strengthened through repentance and by conscientiously preparing for and worthily partaking of the sacrament. Only with a robust spiritual foundation can we handle the metaphorical rain, wind, and floods that confront us in our lives.13 Conversely, our spiritual foundation is weakened when we voluntarily skip sacrament meeting or when we do not focus on the Savior during the sacrament. We may unintentionally “withdraw [ourselves] from the Spirit of the Lord, that it may have no place in [us] to guide [us] in wisdom’s paths that [we] may be blessed, prospered, and preserved.”14 
When we have the Holy Ghost with us, we will be inspired and guided to make and keep other covenants, such as those we make in temples. Doing so deepens our relationship with God.15 You may have noticed that many new temples have been announced in recent years, bringing temples ever closer to members.16 Paradoxically, as temples become more accessible, it may be easier for us to become more casual about temple attendance. When temples are distant, we plan our time and resources to travel to the temple to worship there. We prioritize these journeys.
With a temple close at hand, it can be easy to let little things get in the way of attending, saying to ourselves, “Well, I’ll just go another time.” Living close to a temple does bring greater flexibility in scheduling time in the temple, but that very flexibility can make it easier to take the temple for granted. When we do, we “miss the mark,” undervaluing the opportunity to draw closer to the Savior in His holy house. Our commitment to attend should be at least as strong when the temple is nearby as when it is distant. 
After Carter and Carnarvon excavated elsewhere in the Valley of the Kings looking for Tutankhamun’s tomb, they realized their oversight. We do not need to labor unsuccessfully, as they did for a time, to find our treasure. Nor need we seek counsel from exotic sources, prizing the novelty of the source and thinking such counsel will be more enlightened than that which we can receive from a humble prophet of God.
As recorded in the Old Testament, when Naaman sought a cure for his leprosy, he was indignant at being asked to dip himself seven times in a nearby ordinary river. But he was persuaded to follow the prophet Elisha’s counsel rather than rely on his own preconceived notions of how the miracle should occur. As a result, Naaman was healed.17 When we trust God’s prophet on the earth today and act on his counsel, we will find happiness, and we too can be healed. We need to look no further. 
Brothers and sisters, I encourage you to remember and always focus on Jesus Christ. He is our Savior and Redeemer, the “mark” to whom we should look, and our greatest treasure. As you come to Him, you will be rewarded with strength to face life’s challenges, courage to do what is right, and the ability to fulfill your mission in mortality. Treasure the opportunity to repent, the privilege of partaking of the sacrament, the blessing of making and keeping temple covenants, the delight of worshipping in the temple, and the joy of having a living prophet.
I bear my solemn and sure witness that God, the Eternal Father, is our Heavenly Father and that He lives; Jesus is the Christ; He is our kind, wise heavenly Friend;18 and this is His restored Church. Thank you for your faith and faithfulness. I pray that you will be blessed, prospered, and preserved, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


The full name of the fifth Earl of Carnarvon is George Edward Stanhope Molyneux Herbert.


A computed tomography (CT) scan done in 2005 indicated that King Tutankhamun may have suffered a compound fracture of one of his leg bones, perhaps leading to an infection and death.


Most of the New Kingdom pharaohs of Egypt were buried in the Valley of the Kings. Most of those tombs were found and robbed in antiquity. 


This account of the discovery of Tutankhamun’s tomb is primarily based on Eric H. Cline, “King Tut’s Tomb,” in Archaeology: An Introduction to the World’s Greatest Sites (2016), 60–66.
Numerous factors contributed to Carter’s and Carnarvon’s choices of where to excavate—and where not to excavate—in the Valley of the Kings. The area around the base camp was not immediately appealing for excavation. The triangular area provided visitor access to the tomb of Ramses VI, so excavations there would be particularly disruptive. The area was covered by, in Carter’s words, “a number of roughly constructed workmen’s huts, used probably by the labourers in the tomb of Rameses[,] … [and] three feet of soil that lay beneath them.” It did not seem likely that huts would have been built on top of the entrance to a tomb (see Howard Carter and A. C. Mace, The Tomb of Tut-ankh-Amen: Discovered by the Late Earl of Carnarvon and Howard Carter, vol. 1 [1923], 124–28, 132). 
For other accounts of the discovery of Tutankhamun’s tomb, see Zahi Hawass, Tutankhamun and the Golden Age of the Pharaohs (2005); Nicholas Reeves, The Complete Tutankhamun: The King, the Tomb, the Royal Treasure (1990), 80–83; and Nicholas Reeves and Richard H. Wilkinson, The Complete Valley of the Kings: Tombs and Treasures of Egypt’s Greatest Pharaohs (1996), 81–82.


Jacob 4:14.


2 Nephi 31:19.


See Moroni 7:27–28.


2 Nephi 25:26.


Alma 33:22.


See Doctrine and Covenants 76:52.


See David A. Bednar, “Teach to Build Faith in Jesus Christ” (address given at the seminar for new mission leaders, June 23, 2023); Rachel Sterzer Gibson, “Teach to Build Faith in Jesus Christ, Elder Bednar Instructs,” Church News, June 23, 2023, thechurchnews.com.


The sacrament was, however, not instituted as a specific means of securing a remission of our sins (see James E. Talmage, The Articles of Faith, 12th ed. [1924], 175). A person cannot willfully sin on Saturday evening and expect that all he or she needs to do is eat a piece of bread and drink a cup of water on Sunday and magically be cleansed. But the sanctifying effect of the Holy Ghost can cleanse all who repent with a sincere heart and with real intent. 


See 3 Nephi 18:12–13.


Mosiah 2:36.


President Russell M. Nelson said: “God has a special love for each person who makes a covenant with Him in the waters of baptism. And that divine love deepens as additional covenants are made and faithfully kept” (“Choices for Eternity” [worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022], Gospel Library). The multiple covenants on the covenant path are not just sequential but additive and even synergistic. They facilitate a closer and stronger connection with God. Such a connection allows us to be transformed to the point that His image is in our countenances and our hearts have been mightily and permanently changed (see Alma 5:14).


President Nelson explained that the Lord “is making His temples more accessible. He is accelerating the pace at which we are building temples. He is increasing our ability to help gather Israel. He is also making it easier for each of us to become spiritually refined” (“Focus on the Temple,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 121).


See 2 Kings 5:9–14.


See “I Know That My Redeemer Lives,” Hymns, no. 136.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Eternal Truth","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Eternal Truth

By Elder John C. Pingree Jr.
Of the Seventy

Our need to recognize truth has never been more important!


Brothers and sisters, thank you for your devotion to God the Father and to His Son, Jesus Christ, and thank you for your love and service to each other. You truly are remarkable!


Introduction

After my wife, Anne, and I received a call to serve as full-time mission leaders, our family determined to learn each missionary’s name before arriving in the field. We obtained photos, created flash cards, and began studying faces and memorizing names.
Once we arrived, we held introductory conferences with the missionaries. As we mingled, I overheard our nine-year-old son:
“Nice to meet you, Sam!”
“Rachel, where are you from?”
“Wow, David, you’re tall!”
Alarmed, I went to our son and whispered, “Hey, let’s remember to refer to the missionaries as Elder or Sister.”
He gave me a puzzled look and said, “Dad, I thought we were supposed to memorize their names.” Our son did what he thought was right based on his understanding.
So, what is our understanding of truth in today’s world? We are constantly bombarded with strong opinions, biased reporting, and incomplete data. At the same time, the volume and sources of this information are proliferating. Our need to recognize truth has never been more important!
Truth is critical for us to establish and strengthen our relationship with God, find peace and joy, and reach our divine potential. Today, let us consider the following questions:


What is truth, and why is it important?


How do we find truth?


When we find truth, how can we share it?





Truth Is Eternal

The Lord has taught us in scripture that “truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come” (Doctrine and Covenants 93:24). It “was not created or made” (Doctrine and Covenants 93:29) and has “no end” (Doctrine and Covenants 88:66).1 Truth is absolute, fixed, and immutable. In other words, truth is eternal.2
Truth helps us avoid deception,3 discern good from evil,4 receive protection,5 and find comfort and healing.6 Truth can also guide our actions,7 make us free,8 sanctify us,9 and lead us to eternal life.10




God Reveals Eternal Truth

God reveals eternal truth to us through a network of revelatory relationships involving Himself, Jesus Christ, the Holy Ghost, prophets, and us. Let us discuss the distinct yet interconnected roles each participant plays in this process.
First, God is the source of eternal truth.11 He and His Son, Jesus Christ,12 have a perfect understanding of truth and always act in harmony with true principles and laws.13 This power allows Them to create and govern worlds14 as well as to love, guide, and nurture each one of us perfectly.15 They want us to understand and apply truth so we can enjoy the blessings They do.16 They may impart truth in person or, more typically, through messengers such as the Holy Ghost, angels, or living prophets.
Second, the Holy Ghost testifies of all truth.17 He reveals truths to us directly and witnesses of truth taught by others. Impressions from the Spirit typically come as thoughts to our minds and feelings to our hearts.18
Third, prophets receive truth from God and share that truth with us.19 We learn the truth from past prophets in the scriptures20 and from living prophets at general conference and through other official channels.
Finally, you and I play a crucial role in this process. God expects us to seek, recognize, and act on truth. Our ability to receive and apply truth is dependent on the strength of our relationship with the Father and the Son, our responsiveness to the influence of the Holy Ghost, and our alignment with latter-day prophets.
We need to remember that Satan works to keep us from truth. He knows that without truth, we cannot gain eternal life. He weaves strands of truth with worldly philosophies to confuse us and distract us from what is communicated by God.21



Seeking, Recognizing, and Applying Eternal Truth

As we seek eternal truth,22 the following two questions can help us recognize whether a concept comes from God or from another source:


Is the concept taught consistently in the scriptures and by living prophets?


Is the concept confirmed by the witness of the Holy Ghost?


God reveals doctrinal truths through prophets, and the Holy Ghost confirms those truths to us and helps us apply them.23 We must seek and be prepared to receive these spiritual impressions when they come.24 We are most receptive to the witness of the Spirit when we are humble,25 pray sincerely and study God’s words,26 and keep His commandments.27
Once the Holy Ghost confirms a specific truth to us, our understanding deepens as we put that principle into practice. Over time, as we consistently live the principle, we gain a sure knowledge of that truth.28
For example, I have made mistakes and felt remorse for poor choices. But through prayer, study, and faith in Jesus Christ, I received a witness of the principle of repentance.29 As I continued to repent, my understanding of repentance grew stronger. I felt closer to God and His Son. I now know that sin can be forgiven through Jesus Christ, because I experience the blessings of repentance each day.30




Trusting God When Truth Is Not Yet Revealed

So, what should we do when we sincerely seek for truth not yet revealed? I have empathy for those of us who yearn for answers that do not seem to come.
To Joseph Smith, the Lord counseled, “Hold your peace until I shall see fit to make all things known … concerning the matter” (Doctrine and Covenants 10:37).
And to Emma Smith, He explained, “Murmur not because of the things which thou hast not seen, for they are withheld from thee and from the world, which is wisdom in me in a time to come” (Doctrine and Covenants 25:4).
I too have sought answers to heartfelt questions. Many answers have come; some have not.31 As we hold on—trusting God’s wisdom and love, keeping His commandments, and relying on what we do know—He helps us find peace until He reveals the truth of all things.32



Understanding Doctrine and Policy

When seeking truth, it helps to understand the difference between doctrine and policy. Doctrine refers to eternal truths, such as the nature of the Godhead, the plan of salvation, and Jesus Christ’s atoning sacrifice. Policy is the application of doctrine based on current circumstances. Policy helps us administer the Church in an orderly way.
While doctrine never changes, policy adjusts from time to time. The Lord works through His prophets to uphold His doctrine and to modify Church policies according to the needs of His children.
Unfortunately, we sometimes confuse policy with doctrine. If we do not understand the difference, we risk becoming disillusioned when policies change and may even begin to question God’s wisdom or the revelatory role of prophets.33



Teaching Eternal Truth

When we obtain truth from God, He encourages us to share that knowledge with others.34 We do this when we teach a class, guide a child, or discuss gospel truths with a friend.
Our aim is to teach truth in a way that invites the converting power of the Holy Ghost.35 Let me share some simple invitations from the Lord and His prophets that can help.36


Center on Heavenly Father, Jesus Christ, and Their fundamental doctrine.37


Stay grounded in the scriptures and the teachings of latter-day prophets.38


Rely on doctrine established through multiple authoritative witnesses.39


Avoid speculation, personal opinions, or worldly ideas.40


Teach a point of doctrine within the context of related gospel truths.41


Use teaching methods that invite the influence of the Spirit.42


Communicate clearly to avoid misunderstanding.43





Speaking Truth in Love

How we teach truth really matters. Paul encouraged us to speak “the truth in love” (see Ephesians 4:14–15). Truth has the best chance of blessing another when conveyed with Christlike love.44
Truth taught without love can cause feelings of judgment, discouragement, and loneliness. It often leads to resentment and division—even conflict. On the other hand, love without truth is hollow and lacks the promise of growth.
Both truth and love are essential for our spiritual development.45 Truth provides the doctrine, principles, and laws necessary to gain eternal life, while love engenders the motivation needed to embrace and act upon what is true.
I am forever grateful for others who patiently taught me eternal truth with love.



Conclusion

In conclusion, let me share eternal truths that have become an anchor to my soul. I have come to know these truths by following the principles discussed today.
I know that God is our Heavenly Father.46 He is all knowing,47 all powerful,48 and perfectly loving.49 He created a plan for us to gain eternal life and become like Him.50
As part of that plan, He sent His Son, Jesus Christ, to help us.51 Jesus taught us to do the Father’s will52 and to love one another.53 He atoned for our sins54 and gave up His life on the cross.55 He arose from the dead after three days.56 Through Christ and His grace, we will be resurrected,57 we can be forgiven,58 and we can find strength in affliction.59
During His earthly ministry, Jesus established His Church.60 Over time, that Church was changed, and truths were lost.61 Jesus Christ restored His Church and the truths of the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith.62 And today, Christ continues to lead His Church through living prophets and apostles.63
I know that as we come unto Christ, we can eventually “be perfected in him” (Moroni 10:32), obtain “a fulness of joy” (Doctrine and Covenants 93:33), and receive “all that [the] Father hath” (Doctrine and Covenants 84:38). To these eternal truths I bear witness in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See also Psalm 117:2; Doctrine and Covenants 1:39.


“Contrary to the doubts of some, there really is such a thing as right and wrong. There really is absolute truth—eternal truth. One of the plagues of our day is that too few people know where to turn for truth” (Russell M. Nelson, “Pure Truth, Pure Doctrine, and Pure Revelation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 6).


See Joseph Smith—Matthew 1:37.


See Moroni 7:19.


See 2 Nephi 1:9; Doctrine and Covenants 17:8.


See Jacob 2:8.


See Psalm 119:105; 2 Nephi 32:3.


See John 8:32; Doctrine and Covenants 98:8.


See John 17:17.


See 2 Nephi 31:20.


See Doctrine and Covenants 88:11–13; 93:36.


See John 5:19–20; 7:16; 8:26; 18:37; Moses 1:6.


See Alma 42:12–26; Doctrine and Covenants 88:41.


See Moses 1:30–39.


See 2 Nephi 26:24.


See Doctrine and Covenants 82:8–9.


See John 16:13; Jacob 4:13; Moroni 10:5; Doctrine and Covenants 50:14; 75:10; 76:12; 91:4; 124:97.


See Doctrine and Covenants 6:22–23; 8:2–3.


See Jeremiah 1:5, 7; Amos 3:7; Matthew 28:16–20; Moroni 7:31; Doctrine and Covenants 1:38; 21:1–6; 43:1–7. A prophet is “a person who has been called by and speaks for God. As a messenger of God, a prophet receives commandments, prophecies, and revelations from God. His responsibility is to make known God’s will and true character to mankind and to show the meaning of His dealings with them. A prophet denounces sin and foretells its consequences. He is a preacher of righteousness. On occasion, prophets may be inspired to foretell the future for the benefit of mankind. His primary responsibility, however, is to bear witness of Christ. The President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is God’s prophet on earth today. Members of the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles are sustained as prophets, seers, and revelators” (Guide to the Scriptures, “Prophet,” Gospel Library). Examples of these principles are found in the lives of Adam (see Moses 6:51–62), Enoch (see Moses 6:26–36), Noah (see Moses 8:19, 23–24), Abraham (see Genesis 12:1–3; Abraham 2:8–9), Moses (see Exodus 3:1–15; Moses 1:1–6, 25–26), Peter (see Matthew 16:13–19), and Joseph Smith (see Doctrine and Covenants 5:6–10; 20:2; 21:4–6).


See 2 Timothy 3:16.


See John 8:44; 2 Nephi 2:18; Doctrine and Covenants 93:39; Moses 4:4.


See 1 Nephi 10:19. President Dallin H. Oaks instructed: “We need to be cautious as we seek [God’s] truth and choose sources for that search. We should not consider secular prominence or authority as qualified sources. … When we seek the truth about religion, we should use spiritual methods appropriate for that search: prayer, the witness of the Holy Ghost, and study of the scriptures and the words of modern prophets” (“Truth and the Plan,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 25).


Elder D. Todd Christofferson taught: “Apostles and prophets … declare God’s word, but in addition, we believe men and women generally and even children can learn from and be guided by divine inspiration in response to prayer and study of the scriptures. … Members of the Church of Jesus Christ are given the gift of the Holy Ghost, which facilitates an ongoing communication with their Heavenly Father. … This is not to say that every member speaks for the Church or can define its doctrines but that each can receive divine guidance in dealing with the challenges and opportunities of his or her life” (“The Doctrine of Christ,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2012, 89–90, note 2).


See 2 Nephi 33:1–2.


See Doctrine and Covenants 1:28.


See Moroni 10:3–5; Doctrine and Covenants 9:7–9; 84:85.


See Doctrine and Covenants 5:35; 63:23; 93:27–28. Despite our earnest efforts, some of us may still struggle to feel the Spirit due to mental health challenges. Depression, anxiety, and other neurological conditions can add complexity to recognizing the Holy Ghost. In such cases, the Lord invites us to continue living the gospel, and He will bless us (see Mosiah 2:41). We can look for additional activities—such as listening to sacred music, engaging in service, or spending time in nature—that help us feel the fruits of the Spirit (see Galatians 5:22–23) and strengthen our connection to God.
Elder Jeffrey R. Holland expressed: “So how do you best respond when mental or emotional challenges confront you or those you love? Above all, never lose faith in your Father in Heaven, who loves you more than you can comprehend. … Faithfully pursue the time-tested devotional practices that bring the Spirit of the Lord into your life. Seek the counsel of those who hold keys for your spiritual well-being. Ask for and cherish priesthood blessings. Take the sacrament every week, and hold fast to the perfecting promises of the Atonement of Jesus Christ. Believe in miracles. I have seen so many of them come when every other indication would say that hope was lost. Hope is never lost” (“Like a Broken Vessel,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2013, 40–41).


See John 7:17; Alma 32:26–34. Ultimately, God desires for us to gain truth “line upon line, precept upon precept,” until we comprehend all things (see Proverbs 28:5; 2 Nephi 28:30; Doctrine and Covenants 88:67; 93:28).


See 1 John 1:9–10; 2:1–2.


President Russell M. Nelson explained: “Nothing is more liberating, more ennobling, or more crucial to our individual progression than is a regular, daily focus on repentance. Repentance is not an event; it is a process. It is the key to happiness and peace of mind. When coupled with faith, repentance opens our access to the power of the Atonement of Jesus Christ” (“We Can Do Better and Be Better,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 67).


I do not know all the reasons that God withholds some eternal truths from us, but Elder Orson F. Whitney provided an interesting insight: “It is blessed to believe without seeing, since by the exercise of faith comes spiritual development, one of the great objects of man’s earthly existence; while knowledge, by swallowing up faith, prevents its exercise, thus hindering that development. ‘Knowledge is power;’ and all things are to be known in due season. But premature knowledge—knowing at the wrong time—is fatal both to progress and to happiness” (“The Divinity of Jesus Christ,” Improvement Era, Jan. 1926, 222; see also Ensign, Dec. 2003, 8–9; Liahona, Dec. 2003, 14–15).


See Doctrine and Covenants 76:5–10. The Lord also counseled Hyrum Smith to “seek not to declare my word, but first seek to obtain my word. … Hold your peace [and] study my word” (Doctrine and Covenants 11:21–22). The prophet Alma provides an example for handling unanswered questions: “These mysteries are not yet fully made known unto me; therefore I shall forbear” (Alma 37:11). He also explained to his son Corianton that “there are many mysteries which are kept, that no one knoweth them save God himself” (Alma 40:3). I have also found strength from the response of Nephi when he was presented with a question he could not answer: “I know that [God] loveth his children; nevertheless, I do not know the meaning of all things” (1 Nephi 11:17).


Similarly, cultural traditions are not doctrine or policy. They can be useful if they help us follow doctrine and policy, but they can also impede our spiritual growth if they are not based on true principles. We should avoid traditions that do not build our faith in Jesus Christ or help us progress toward eternal life.


See Doctrine and Covenants 15:5; 88:77–78.


See Doctrine and Covenants 50:21–23.


Adapted from the document “Principles for Ensuring Doctrinal Purity,” approved by the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in February 2023.


See 1 Nephi 15:14. The Lord directed His servants to avoid focusing on tenets, or concepts, that are not central to His gospel: “And of tenets thou shalt not talk, but thou shalt declare repentance and faith on the Savior, and remission of sins by baptism, and by fire, yea, even the Holy Ghost” (Doctrine and Covenants 19:31).
Elder Neil L. Andersen explained: “Let us focus on the Savior Jesus Christ and the gift of His atoning sacrifice. This does not mean we cannot tell an experience from our own life or share thoughts from others. While our subject might be about families or service or temples or a recent mission, everything … should point to the Lord Jesus Christ” (“We Talk of Christ,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 89–90).


See Doctrine and Covenants 28:2–3, 8. The prophet Alma admonished those appointed to preach the gospel to “teach nothing save it were the things which he had taught, and which had been spoken by the mouth of the holy prophets” (Mosiah 18:19).
President Henry B. Eyring declared, “We must teach the fundamental doctrines of the Church as contained in the standard works and the teachings of the prophets, whose responsibility it is to declare doctrine” (“The Lord Will Multiply the Harvest” [evening with a General Authority, Feb. 6, 1998], in Teaching Seminary: Preservice Readings [2004], 96).
Elder D. Todd Christofferson testified that “in the Church today, just as anciently, establishing the doctrine of Christ or correcting doctrinal deviations is a matter of divine revelation to those the Lord endows with apostolic authority” (“The Doctrine of Christ,” 86).


See 2 Corinthians 13:1; 2 Nephi 11:3; Ether 5:4; Doctrine and Covenants 6:28. Elder Neil L. Andersen observed: “A few question their faith when they find a statement made by a Church leader decades ago that seems incongruent with our doctrine. There is an important principle that governs the doctrine of the Church. The doctrine is taught by all 15 members of the First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve. It is not hidden in an obscure paragraph of one talk. True principles are taught frequently and by many. Our doctrine is not difficult to find” (“Trial of Your Faith,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2012, 41).
Elder D. Todd Christofferson similarly taught: “It should be remembered that not every statement made by a Church leader, past or present, necessarily constitutes doctrine. It is commonly understood in the Church that a statement made by one leader on a single occasion often represents a personal, though well-considered, opinion, not meant to be official or binding for the whole Church” (“The Doctrine of Christ,” 88).


See 3 Nephi 11:32, 40. President Gordon B. Hinckley said: “I have spoken before about the importance of keeping the doctrine of the Church pure. … I worry about this. Small aberrations in doctrinal teaching can lead to large and evil falsehoods” (Teachings of Gordon B. Hinckley [1997], 620).
President Dallin H. Oaks warned that there are some “who select a few sentences from the teachings of a prophet and use these to support their political agenda or other personal purposes. … To wrest the words of a prophet to support a private agenda, political or financial or otherwise, is to try to manipulate the prophet, not to follow him” (“Our Strengths Can Become Our Downfall” [Brigham Young University fireside, June 7, 1992], 7, speeches.byu.edu).
President Henry B. Eyring cautioned: “Doctrine gains its power as the Holy Ghost confirms that it is true. … Because we need the Holy Ghost, we must be cautious and careful not to go beyond teaching true doctrine. The Holy Ghost is the Spirit of Truth. His confirmation is invited by our avoiding speculation or personal interpretation. That can be hard to do. … It is tempting to try something new or sensational. But we invite the Holy Ghost as our companion when we are careful to teach only true doctrine. One of the surest ways to avoid even getting near false doctrine is to choose to be simple in our teaching. Safety is gained by that simplicity, and little is lost” (“The Power of Teaching Doctrine,” Ensign, May 1999, 74; Liahona, July 1999, 86).
Elder Dale G. Renlund taught: “Seeking greater understanding is an important part of our spiritual development, but please be cautious. Reason cannot replace revelation. Speculation will not lead to greater spiritual knowledge, but it can lead us to deception or divert our focus from what has been revealed” (“Your Divine Nature and Eternal Destiny,” Liahona, May 2022, 70).


See Matthew 23:23. President Joseph F. Smith warned: “It is very unwise to take a fragment of truth and treat it as if it were the whole thing. … All the revealed principles of the gospel of Christ are necessary and essential in the plan of salvation.” He further explained: “It is neither good policy nor sound doctrine to take any one of these, single it out from the whole plan of gospel truth, make it a special hobby, and depend upon it for our salvation and progress. … They are all necessary” (Gospel Doctrine, 5th ed. [1939], 122).
Elder Neal A. Maxwell explained: “The gospel’s principles … require synchronization. When pulled apart from each other or isolated, men’s interpretations and implementations of these doctrines may be wild. Love, if not checked by the seventh commandment, could become carnal. The fifth commandment’s laudable emphasis upon honoring parents, unless checked by the first commandment, could result in unconditional loyalty to errant parents rather than to God. … Even patience is balanced by ‘reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost’ [Doctrine and Covenants 121:43]” (“Behold, the Enemy Is Combined,” Ensign, May 1993, 78–79).
President Marion G. Romney instructed, “Searching [the scriptures] for the purpose of discovering what they teach as enjoined by Jesus is a far cry from hunting through them for the purpose of finding passages which can be pressed into service to support a predetermined conclusion” (“Records of Great Worth,” Ensign, Sept. 1980, 3).


See 1 Corinthians 2:4; Moroni 6:9. Elder Jeffrey R. Holland emphasized the need to communicate the gospel of Jesus Christ in a way that leads to spiritual edification through the power of the Holy Ghost: “The Lord has never given more emphatic counsel to the Church than that we are to teach the gospel ‘by the Spirit, even the Comforter which was sent forth to teach the truth.’ Do we teach the gospel ‘by the Spirit of truth?’ He has inquired. Or do we teach it ‘some other way? And if it be by some other way,’ He warns, ‘it is not of God’ [Doctrine and Covenants 50:14, 17–18]. … No eternal learning can take place without that quickening of the Spirit from heaven. … That is what our members really want. … They want their faith fortified and their hope renewed. They want, in short, to be nourished by the good word of God, to be strengthened by the powers of heaven” (“A Teacher Come from God,” Ensign, May 1998, 26).


See Alma 13:23. Speaking of our Heavenly Father, President Russell M. Nelson testified, “He communicates simply, quietly, and with such stunning plainness that we cannot misunderstand Him” (“Hear Him,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2020, 89).


See Psalm 26:3; Romans 13:10; 1 Corinthians 13:1–8; 1 John 3:18.


See Psalm 40:11.


See Romans 8:16.


See 1 Samuel 2:3; Matthew 6:8; 2 Nephi 2:24; 9:20.


See Genesis 17:1; Jeremiah 32:17; 1 Nephi 7:12; Alma 26:35.


See Jeremiah 31:3; 1 John 4:7–10; Alma 26:37.


See 2 Nephi 9; Doctrine and Covenants 20:17–31; Moses 6:52–62.


See John 3:16; 1 John 4:9–10.


See John 8:29; 3 Nephi 27:13.


See John 15:12; 1 John 3:11.


See Luke 22:39–46.


See John 19:16–30.


See John 20:1–18.


See 1 Corinthians 15:20–22; Mosiah 15:20–24; 16:7–9; Doctrine and Covenants 76:16–17.


See Acts 11:17–18; 1 Timothy 1:14–16; Alma 34:8–10; Moroni 6:2–3, 8; Doctrine and Covenants 19:13–19.


See Matthew 11:28–30; 2 Corinthians 12:7–10; Philippians 4:13; Alma 26:11–13.


See Matthew 16:18–19; Ephesians 2:20.


See Matthew 24:24; Acts 20:28–30.


See Doctrine and Covenants 20:1–4; 21:1–7; 27:12; 110; 135:3; Joseph Smith—History 1:1–20.


See Doctrine and Covenants 1:14, 38; 43:1–7; 107:91–92.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Divine Parenting Lessons","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Divine Parenting Lessons

By Elder Valeri V. Cordón
Of the Seventy

Parents enter a partnership with their Heavenly Father to guide their precious children back to heaven.


Have you ever held a newborn in your arms? There is a light that emanates from every newborn, bringing a special bond of love that can fill their parents’ hearts with joy.1 A Mexican writer wrote, “I have learned that when a newborn first squeezes his father’s finger in his tiny fist, he has caught him forever.”2
Parenting is one of life’s most extraordinary experiences. Parents enter a partnership with their Heavenly Father to guide their precious children back to heaven.3 Today I would like to share some parenting lessons found in the scriptures and taught by living prophets to help us leave our parental legacy.


Climb to the Higher Ground of Gospel Culture

We must climb to the higher ground of gospel culture with our families. President Russell M. Nelson declared: “Families deserve guidance from heaven. Parents cannot counsel children adequately from personal experience, fear, or sympathy.”4
Although our cultural backgrounds, parenting styles, and personal experiences may be valuable for parenting, these abilities are insufficient to help our children return to heaven. We need access to a more elevated “set of values and … practices,”5 a culture of both love and expectations, where we interact with our children “in a higher, holier way.”6 President Dallin H. Oaks described gospel culture as “a distinctive way of life, a set of values and expectations and practices. … This gospel culture comes from the plan of salvation, the commandments of God, and the teachings of … living prophets. It guides us in the way we raise our families and live our individual lives.”7
Jesus Christ is the center of this gospel culture. Adopting the gospel culture in our families is critical to creating a fertile environment where the seed of faith may flourish. To climb to higher ground, President Oaks invited us “to give up any personal or family traditions or practices that are contrary to the teachings of the Church of Jesus Christ.”8 Parents, timidity on our part to establish gospel culture may allow the adversary to establish a foothold in our homes or, even worse, in the hearts of our children.
As we choose to make the gospel culture the predominant culture in our family, then by the powerful influence of the Holy Ghost,9 our current parenting styles, traditions, and practices will be sifted, aligned, refined, and enhanced.



Make Home the Center of Gospel Learning

President Russell M. Nelson has taught that the home should be the “center of gospel learning.”10 The purpose of gospel learning is to “deepen our conversion to Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ and help us become more like Them.”11 Let’s consider three crucial parenting responsibilities described by prophets and apostles that can help us establish a higher gospel culture in our homes.


First: Teach Freely

Heavenly Father instructed Adam concerning Jesus Christ and His doctrine. He taught him “to teach these things freely unto [his] children.”12 In other words, Heavenly Father taught Adam to teach these things liberally, generously, and without restraint.13 The scriptures tell us that “Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters.”14
We teach our children generously when we spend meaningful time with them. We teach without restraint when discussing sensitive topics such as screen time, using resources that the Church has made available.15 We teach liberally when we study the scriptures with our children using Come, Follow Me and allow the Spirit to be the teacher.



Second: Model Discipleship

In the book of John, we read that when several Jews questioned the Savior about His conduct, Jesus directed attention to His model, His Father. He taught, “The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise.”16 Parents, what do we need to model for our children? Discipleship.
As parents, we can teach the importance of putting God first when we discuss the first commandment, but we model it when we set aside worldly distractions and keep the Sabbath day holy every week. We can teach the importance of temple covenants when we speak about the doctrine of celestial marriage, but we model it when we honor our covenants, treating our spouse with dignity.



Third: Invite to Act

Faith in Jesus Christ should be the core of our children’s testimonies, and these testimonies must come to each child through individual revelation.17 To assist our children with the building of their testimonies, we encourage them to use their agency to choose what is right18 and prepare them for a lifetime on God’s covenant path.19
It would be wise to encourage each of our children to accept President Nelson’s invitation to take charge of his or her own testimony of Jesus Christ and His gospel—to work for it, to nurture it so that it will grow, to feed it truth, and to not pollute it with false philosophies of unbelieving men and women.20




Righteous, Intentional Parenting

Our Heavenly Father’s divine intentions as a parent were made known in a revelation given to Moses: “For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.”21 President Nelson has added, “God will do everything He can, short of violating your agency, to help you not miss out on the greatest blessings in all eternity.”22
As parents, we are God’s agents in the care of our children.23 We must do everything we can to create an environment where our children can feel His divine influence.
Heavenly Father never intended for us as parents to sit on the sidelines as spectators, watching the spiritual lives of our children unfold. Let me illustrate this idea of intentional parenting with a personal experience. When I was attending Primary in a small branch in Guatemala, my parents began to teach me about the value of patriarchal blessings. My mother took the time to share her experience of receiving her treasured patriarchal blessing. She taught me the doctrine related to patriarchal blessings, and she testified of promised blessings. Her intentional parenting inspired me to have the desire to receive my patriarchal blessing.
When I was 12, my parents helped me navigate the search for a patriarch. This was necessary because there was no patriarch in the district where we lived. I traveled to a patriarch that was in a stake 156 kilometers (97 miles) away. I distinctly remember when the patriarch laid his hands upon my head to bless me. I knew by powerful spiritual confirmation, without a doubt, that my Heavenly Father knew me.
For a 12-year-old boy from a small town, that meant everything to me. My heart turned to my Heavenly Father that day because of my mother and father’s intentional parenting, and I will be forever grateful to them.
Sister Joy D. Jones, former Primary General President, taught: “We cannot wait for conversion to simply happen to our children. Accidental conversion is not a principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ.”24 Our love and inspired invitations can make a difference in how our children use their agency. President Nelson emphasized, “No other work transcends that of righteous, intentional parenting!”25



Conclusion

Parents, this world is full of philosophies, cultures, and ideas competing for our children’s attention. The great and spacious building advertises its membership daily using the most current media channels. “But in the gift of his Son,” the prophet Moroni taught, “hath God prepared a more excellent way.”26
As we partner with God through covenants and become His agents in the care of our children, He will sanctify our intentions, inspire our teachings, and temper our invitations so “our children may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins.”27 In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Psalm 127:3.


Johnny Welch, “The Puppet,” reproduced at inspire21.com/thepuppet; see also Johnny Welch, Lo que me ha enseñado la vida (1996).


This may seem like a daunting task, but as Elder Jeffrey R. Holland said, “With a Heavenly Father’s help we can leave more of a parental legacy than we suppose” (“The Hands of the Fathers,” Ensign, May 1999, 15; Liahona, July 1999, 18).


Russell M. Nelson, “Thou Shalt Have No Other Gods,” Ensign, May 1996, 15.


Dallin H. Oaks, “The Gospel Culture,” Ensign, Mar. 2012, 42; Liahona, Mar. 2012, 22.


Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 99.


Dallin H. Oaks, “The Gospel Culture,” Ensign, Mar. 2012, 42; Liahona, Mar. 2012, 22.


Dallin H. Oaks, “The Gospel Culture,” Ensign, Mar. 2012, 42; Liahona, Mar. 2012, 22.


See Moroni 10:5.


Russell M. Nelson, “Becoming Exemplary Latter-day Saints,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 113.


“Conversion Is Our Goal,” in Come, Follow Me—For Individuals and Families: New Testament 2023, v.


Moses 6:58.


See American Dictionary of the English Language, “freely,” webstersdictionary1828.com/Dictionary/freely.


Moses 5:12.


See “Taking Charge of Technology” and For the Strength of Youth: A Guide for Making Choices (2022), Gospel Library.


John 5:19.


See “Matthew 16:17–18. Individual Revelation Needed for a Testimony of Jesus Christ,” in New Testament Student Manual (2018), 52.


See Dale G. Renlund, “Choose You This Day,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 104: “Our Heavenly Father’s goal in parenting is not to have His children do what is right; it is to have His children choose to do what is right and ultimately become like Him.”


See “Appendix: Preparing Your Children for a Lifetime on God’s Covenant Path,” in Come, Follow Me—For Individuals and Families: New Testament 2023, Gospel Library.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 97.


Moses 1:39. In this verse, Jesus Christ is speaking on behalf of Heavenly Father.


Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults), May 15, 2022, Gospel Library.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Salvation and Exaltation,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2008, 10: “Do not try to control your children. Instead, listen to them, help them to learn the gospel, inspire them, and lead them toward eternal life. You are God’s agents in the care of children He has entrusted to you. Let His divine influence remain in your hearts as you teach and persuade.”


Joy D. Jones, “Essential Conversations,” Liahona, May 2021, 12.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Sabbath Is a Delight,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2015, 131.


Ether 12:11.


2 Nephi 25:26.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Savior’s Healing Power upon the Isles of the Sea","year":"2023","month":"10"}



The Savior’s Healing Power upon the Isles of the Sea

By Elder J. Kimo Esplin
Of the Seventy

Through temple blessings, the Savior heals individuals, families, and nations.


In the 1960s my father taught at the Church College of Hawaii in Laie, where I was born. My seven older sisters insisted my parents name me “Kimo,” a Hawaiian name. We lived near the Laie Hawaii Temple when it served much of the Church membership of the Asia Pacific Area, including Japan.1 At this time, groups of Japanese Saints began coming to Hawaii to receive the blessings of the temple.
One of these members was a sister from the beautiful island of Okinawa. The story of her journey to the Hawaii Temple is remarkable. Two decades earlier, she had been married in a traditional arranged Buddhist wedding. Just a few months later, Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, thrusting the United States into a conflict with Japan. In the wake of battles such as Midway and Iwo Jima, the tides of war pushed the Japanese forces back to the shores of her island home, Okinawa, the last line of defense standing against the Allied forces before the heartlands of Japan.
For a harrowing three months in 1945, the Battle of Okinawa raged. A flotilla of 1,300 American warships encircled and bombarded the island. Military and civilian casualties were enormous. Today a solemn monument in Okinawa lists more than 240,000 known names of people who perished in the battle.2
In a desperate attempt to escape the onslaught, this Okinawan woman, her husband, and their two small children sought refuge in a mountain cave. They endured unspeakable misery through the ensuing weeks and months.
One desperate night amidst the battle, with her family near starvation and her husband unconscious, she contemplated ending their suffering with a hand grenade, which the authorities had supplied to her and others for that purpose. However, as she prepared to do so, a profoundly spiritual experience unfolded that gave her a tangible sense of the reality of God and His love for her, which gave her the strength to carry on. In the following days, she revived her husband and fed her family with weeds, honey from a wild beehive, and creatures caught in a nearby stream. Remarkably, they endured six months in the cave until local villagers informed them that the battle had ended.
When the family returned home and began rebuilding their lives, this Japanese woman started searching for answers about God. She gradually kindled a belief in Jesus Christ and the need to be baptized. However, she was concerned about her loved ones who had died without a knowledge of Jesus Christ and baptism, including her mother, who died giving birth to her.
Imagine her joy when two sister missionaries from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints came to her house one day and taught her that people can learn about Jesus Christ in the spirit world. She was captivated by the teaching that her parents could choose to follow Jesus Christ after death and accept baptism performed on their behalf in holy places called temples. She and her family were converted to the Savior and baptized.
Her family worked hard and began to prosper, adding three more children. They were faithful and active in the Church. Then, unexpectedly, her husband suffered a stroke and died, compelling her to work long hours at multiple jobs for many years to provide for her five children.
Some people in her family and neighborhood criticized her. They blamed her troubles on her decision to join a Christian church. Undeterred by profound tragedy and harsh criticism, she held on to her faith in Jesus Christ, determined to press forward, trusting that God knew her and that brighter days were ahead.3
A few years following her husband’s untimely death, the mission president of Japan felt inspired to encourage the Japanese members to work toward attending the temple. The mission president was an American veteran of the Battle of Okinawa, in which the Okinawan sister and her family had suffered so much.4 Nonetheless, the humble sister said of him: “He was then one of our hated enemies, but now he was here with the gospel of love and peace. This, to me, was a miracle.”5
Upon hearing the mission president’s message, the widowed sister desired to be sealed to her family in the temple someday. However, it was impossible for her, due to financial constraints and language barriers.
Then several innovative solutions emerged. The cost could be reduced by half if members in Japan chartered an entire plane to fly to Hawaii in the offseason.6 Members also recorded and sold vinyl records entitled Japanese Saints Sing. Some members even sold homes. Others quit their jobs to make the trip.7
The other challenge for members was that the temple presentation was not available in Japanese. Church leaders called a Japanese brother to travel to the Hawaiian temple to translate the endowment ceremony.8 He was the first Japanese convert after the war, having been taught and baptized by faithful American soldiers.9
When the endowed Japanese members living in Hawaii first heard the translation, they wept. One member recorded: “We’ve been to the temple many, many times. We’ve heard the ceremonies in English. [But] we have never felt the spirit of … temple work as we feel it now [hearing it] in our own native tongue.”10
Later that same year, 161 adults and children embarked from Tokyo to make their way to the Hawaii Temple. One Japanese brother reflected on the journey: “As I looked out of the airplane and saw Pearl Harbor, and remembered what our country had done to these people on December 7, 1941, I feared in my heart. Will they accept us? But to my surprise they showed greater love and kindness than I had ever seen in my life.”11

Upon the Japanese Saints’ arrival, the Hawaiian members welcomed them with countless strands of flower leis while exchanging hugs and kisses on the cheeks, a custom foreign to Japanese culture. After spending 10 transformative days in Hawaii, the Japanese Saints bid their farewells to the melody of “Aloha Oe” sung by the Hawaiian Saints.12
The second temple trip organized for Japanese members included the widowed Okinawan sister. She made the 10,000-mile (16,000-km) journey thanks to a generous gift from missionaries who had served in her branch and had eaten many meals at her table. While in the temple, she shed tears of joy as she acted as a proxy for her mother’s baptism and was sealed to her deceased husband.
Temple excursions from Japan to Hawaii continued regularly until the Tokyo Japan Temple was dedicated in 1980, becoming the 18th temple in operation. In November of this year, the 186th temple will be dedicated in Okinawa, Japan. It is located not far from the cave in central Okinawa where this woman and her family sheltered.13
Though I never met this wonderful sister from Okinawa, her legacy lives on through her faithful posterity, many of whom I know and love.14
My father, a World War II veteran of the Pacific, was thrilled when I received my call to serve in Japan as a young missionary. I arrived in Japan shortly after the Tokyo Temple was dedicated and saw firsthand their love for the temple.
Temple covenants are gifts from our Heavenly Father to the faithful followers of His Son, Jesus Christ. Through the temple, our Heavenly Father binds individuals and families to the Savior and to each other.
President Russell M. Nelson declared last year:
“Each person who makes covenants in baptismal fonts and in temples—and keeps them—has increased access to the power of Jesus Christ. …
“The reward for keeping covenants with God is heavenly power—power that strengthens us to withstand our trials, temptations, and heartaches better. This power eases our way.”15
Through temple blessings, the Savior heals individuals, families, and nations—even those that once stood as bitter enemies. The resurrected Lord declared to a conflict-ridden society in the Book of Mormon that unto those who honor “my name, shall the Son of Righteousness arise with healing in his wings.”16
I am grateful to witness the ongoing fulfillment of the Lord’s promise that “the time shall come when the knowledge of a Savior shall spread throughout every nation, kindred, tongue, and people,”17 including to those “upon the isles of the sea.”18
I testify of the Savior Jesus Christ and of His prophet and apostles in these latter days. I solemnly bear witness of the heavenly power to bind in heaven what is bound on earth.
This is the Savior’s work, and temples are His holy house.
With unwavering conviction, I declare these truths in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


The Laie Hawaii Temple was dedicated in 1919 by President Heber J. Grant. As an Apostle, he opened the Church in Japan in 1901. It was the fifth operating temple and the first temple built outside the continental United States.


As of March 2, 2023, there were 241,281 names inscribed on the monument.


See Gordon B. Hinckley, “Keep the Chain Unbroken” (Brigham Young University devotional, Nov. 30, 1999), 4, speeches.byu.edu.


Dwayne N. Andersen was wounded in the Battle of Okinawa. He served as mission president in Japan from 1962 to 1965 and was the first president of the Tokyo Japan Temple, from 1980 to 1982.


I met members of her family while my wife and I served as mission leaders in Tokyo. They provided me with this information from her personal family history accounts.


See Dwayne N. Andersen: An Autobiography for His Posterity, 102–5, Church History Library, Salt Lake City.


See Dwayne N. Andersen, 104.


See Edward L. Clissold, “Translating the Endowment into Japanese,” in Stories of the Temple in Lā‘ie, Hawai‘i, comp. Clinton D. Christensen (2019), 110–13. 


The translator, Tatsui Sato, was baptized July 7, 1946, by a US serviceman, C. Elliott Richards. Tatsui’s wife, Chiyo Sato, was baptized on the same day by Boyd K. Packer. Separately, Neal A. Maxwell fought in the Battle of Okinawa, and L. Tom Perry was among the first wave of Marines to go ashore in Japan following the peace treaty. Elders Packer, Maxwell, and Perry would become members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.


In Clissold, “Translating the Endowment into Japanese,” 112.


In Dwayne N. Andersen, “1965 Japanese Excursion,” Stories of the Temple in Lā‘ie, Hawai‘i, 114.


See Andersen, “1965 Japanese Excursion,” 114, 117.


Later in this session of the October 2023 general conference, President Russell M. Nelson announced 20 new temples, including the Osaka Japan Temple, which will be the fifth temple in Japan.


During our mission in Tokyo from 2018 to 2021, amid the challenges of the COVID pandemic, her family extended love and care for me and my family, which we will forever be grateful for.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 96.


3 Nephi 25:2.


Mosiah 3:20.


2 Nephi 29:7.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Love Is Spoken Here","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Love Is Spoken Here

By Elder Gerrit W. Gong
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

May we each learn to speak and hear His love here, in our hearts and homes, and in our gospel callings, activities, ministering, and service.


Our Primary children sing, “Love is spoken here.”1
I once gave Sister Gong a small locket. I had it inscribed dot-dot, dot-dot, dot-dot-dash. Those familiar with Morse code will recognize the letters I, I, U. But I included a second code. In Mandarin Chinese, “ai” means “love.” So, double-decoded, the message was “I love you.” Susan, sweetheart, “I, ai (爱), U.”
We speak love in many languages. I am told the human family speaks 7,168 living languages.2 In the Church we speak 575 documented primary languages, with many dialects. We also communicate intent, inflection, and emotion through art, music, dance, logical symbols, and inter- and intrapersonal expression.3
Today, let us speak of three languages of gospel love: the language of warmth and reverence, the language of service and sacrifice, and the language of covenant belonging.
First, the gospel language of warmth and reverence.
With warmth and reverence, Sister Gong asks children and youth, “How do you know your parents and families love you?”
In Guatemala, children say, “My parents work hard to feed our family.” In North America, children say, “My parents read stories and tuck me into bed at night.” In the Holy Land, children say, “My parents keep me safe.” In Ghana, West Africa, children say, “My parents help me with my Children and Youth goals.”
One child said, “Even though she is very tired after working all day, my mother comes outside to play with me.” Her mother cried when she heard that her daily sacrifices matter. A young woman said, “Even though my mother and I sometimes disagree, I trust my mother.” Her mother cried too.
Sometimes we need to know love spoken here is heard and appreciated here.
With warmth and reverence, our sacrament and other meetings focus on Jesus Christ. We speak reverently of the Atonement of Jesus Christ, personal and real, not only of atonement in the abstract. We call Jesus Christ’s restored Church in His name, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We use reverent prayer language when we address Heavenly Father and warm respect when we speak with each other. As we recognize Jesus Christ at the heart of temple covenants, we refer less to “going to the temple” and more to “coming to Jesus Christ in the house of the Lord.” Each covenant whispers, “Love is spoken here.”
New members say Church vocabulary often requires decoding. We chuckle at the thought that “stake house” could mean a nice beef dinner; “ward building” could indicate a hospital; “opening exercises” could invite us to do head, shoulders, knees, and toes in the church parking lot. But, please, let us be understanding and kind as we learn new languages of love together. New at church, a convert was told her skirts were too short. Instead of taking offense, she replied, in effect, “My heart is converted; please be patient as my skirts catch up.”4
The words we use can draw us closer to or distance us from other Christians and friends. Sometimes we speak of missionary work, temple work, humanitarian and welfare work in ways that may cause others to think we believe we work on our own. Let us always speak with warm and reverent gratitude for God’s work and glory and the merits, mercy, and grace of Jesus Christ and His atoning sacrifice.5

Second, the gospel language of service and sacrifice.
As we gather again at church each week to honor and rejoice in the Sabbath day, we can express our sacramental covenant commitment to Jesus Christ and each other through our Church callings, fellowship, sociality, and service.
When I ask local Church leaders what concerns them, both brothers and sisters say, “Some of our members are not accepting Church calls.” Calls to serve the Lord and each other in His Church give opportunity to increase in compassion, capacity, and humility. As we are set apart, we can receive the Lord’s inspiration to lift and strengthen others and ourselves. Of course, the changing circumstances and seasons of our lives may affect our ability to serve, but hopefully never our desire. With King Benjamin, we say, “If I had I would give”6 and offer all we can.
Stake and ward leaders, let’s do our part. As we call (and release) brothers and sisters to serve in the Lord’s Church, let’s please do so with dignity and inspiration. Help each feel appreciated and that they can be successful. Please counsel with and listen to sister leaders. May we remember, as President J. Reuben Clark taught, in the Lord’s Church we serve where called, “which place one neither seeks nor declines.”7
When Sister Gong and I were married, Elder David B. Haight counseled: “Always hold a calling in the Church. Especially when life is busy,” he said, “you need to feel the Lord’s love for those you serve and for you as you serve.” I promise that love is spoken here, there, and everywhere as we answer yes to Church leaders to serve the Lord in His Church by His Spirit and our covenants.
The Lord’s restored Church can be an incubator for a Zion community. As we worship, serve, enjoy, and learn His love together, we anchor each other in His gospel. We may disagree politically or on social issues but find harmony as we sing together in the ward choir. We nurture connection and fight isolation as we regularly minister with our hearts in each other’s homes and neighborhoods.
During member visits with stake presidents, I feel their deep love for members in every circumstance. As we drove past member homes in his stake, one stake president noted that whether we live in a home with a swimming pool or a home with a dirt floor, Church service is a privilege that often includes sacrifice. Yet, he wisely noticed, when we serve and sacrifice in the gospel together, we find fewer faults and greater peace. When we let Him, Jesus Christ helps us speak His love here.
This summer, our family met wonderful Church members and friends in Loughborough and Oxford, England. These meaningful gatherings reminded me how ward social and service activities can build new and enduring gospel bonds. For some time I have felt that, in many places in the Church, a few more ward activities, of course planned and implemented with gospel purpose, could knit us together with even greater belonging and unity.
One inspired ward activities chair and committee nurtures individuals and a community of Saints. Their well-planned activities help everybody feel valued, included, and invited to play a needed role. Such activities bridge ages and backgrounds, create lasting memories, and can be carried out with little or no cost. Enjoyable gospel activities also invite neighbors and friends.
Sociality and service often go together. Young adults know if you really want to get to know someone, then paint side by side on a ladder in a service project.

Of course, no individual and no family is perfect. We all need help better to speak love here. “Perfect love casteth out fear.”8 Faith, service, and sacrifice draw us beyond ourselves closer to our Savior. The more compassionate, faithful, and selfless our service and sacrifice are in Him, the more we may begin to fathom Jesus Christ’s atoning compassion and grace for us.

And that brings us to the gospel language of covenant belonging.
We live in a self-centered world. So much is “I choose me.” It is as if we believe we know best our own self-interest and how to pursue it.
But ultimately it is not true. Jesus Christ personifies this powerful, ageless truth:
“For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.
“For what is a man [or woman] profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?”9
Jesus Christ offers a better way—relationships founded on divine covenant, stronger than the cords of death. Covenant belonging with God and each other can heal and sanctify our most cherished relationships. In truth, He knows us better and loves us more than we know or love ourselves. In truth, when we covenant all we are, we can become more than we are. God’s power and wisdom can bless us with every good gift, in His time and way.
Generative artificial intelligence (AI) has made great strides in language translation. Long gone are the days when a computer might translate the idiomatic phrase “The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak” as “The wine is good, but the meat is spoiled.” Interestingly, repeating extensive examples of a language teaches a computer a language more effectively than does teaching a computer the rules of grammar.
Similarly, our own direct, repeated experiences may be our best spiritual way to learn the gospel languages of warmth and reverence, service and sacrifice, and covenant belonging.
So, where and how does Jesus Christ speak to you in love?
Where and how do you hear His love spoken here?
May we each learn to speak and hear His love here, in our hearts and homes, and in our gospel callings, activities, ministering, and service.
In God’s plan, we will each transition one day from this life into the next life. When we meet the Lord, I imagine Him saying, with words of instruction and promise, “My love is spoken here.” In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


“Love Is Spoken Here,” Children’s Songbook, 190–91.


See Ethnologue, ethnologue.com/about/#comprehensive.


See Howard Gardner, Frames of Mind: The Theory of Multiple Intelligences (2011).


A similar experience appears in Alonzo L. Gaskill, Converted: True Conversion Stories from 15 Religions (2017), 3.


See 2 Nephi 2:8.


Mosiah 4:24.


J. Reuben Clark Jr., in Conference Report, Apr. 1951, 154.


1 John 4:18; see also Moroni 8:16.


Matthew 16:25–26; see also Matthew 10:39–40; Mark 8:35–36; Luke 9:24–25; 17:33; John 12:25.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"We Are His Children","year":"2023","month":"10"}



We Are His Children

By Elder Christophe G. Giraud-Carrier
Of the Seventy

We have the same divine origin and the same limitless potential through the grace of Jesus Christ.


Do you recall the experience the prophet Samuel had when the Lord sent him to Jesse’s house to anoint the new king of Israel? Samuel saw Eliab, Jesse’s firstborn. Eliab, it seems, was tall and had the appearance of a leader. Samuel saw that and jumped to a conclusion. It turned out to be the wrong conclusion, and the Lord taught Samuel: “Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; … for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart.”1
Do you recall the experience the disciple Ananias had when the Lord sent him to bless Saul? Saul’s reputation had preceded him, and Ananias had heard about Saul and his cruel, relentless persecution of the Saints. Ananias heard and jumped to a conclusion that perhaps he should not minister to Saul. It turned out to be the wrong conclusion, and the Lord taught Ananias, “He is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel.”2
What was the trouble with Samuel and Ananias in these two instances? They saw with their eyes and heard with their ears, and as a result, they passed judgment on others based on appearance and hearsay.
When the scribes and the Pharisees saw the woman taken in adultery, what did they see? A depraved woman, a sinner worthy of death. When Jesus saw her, what did He see? A woman who had temporarily succumbed to the weakness of the flesh but could be reclaimed through repentance and His Atonement. When people saw the centurion whose servant was sick with palsy, what did they see? Perhaps they saw an intruder, a foreigner, one to be despised. When Jesus saw him, what did He see? A man concerned for the welfare of a member of his household, who sought the Lord in candor and faith. When people saw the woman with an issue of blood, what did they see? Perhaps an unclean woman, an outcast to be shunned. When Jesus saw her, what did He see? A sickly woman, lonely and alienated due to circumstances she did not control, who hoped to be healed and to belong again.
In every case, the Lord saw these individuals for who they were and accordingly ministered to each one. As Nephi and his brother Jacob declared:
“He inviteth them all to come unto him … , black and white, bond and free, male and female; and he remembereth the heathen; and all are alike unto God.”3
“The one being is as precious in his sight as the other.”4
May we likewise not let our eyes, our ears, or our fears mislead us but open our hearts and minds and minister freely to those around us as He did.
Some years ago, my wife, Isabelle, received an unusual ministering assignment. She was asked to visit an elderly widow in our ward, a sister with health challenges and whose loneliness had brought bitterness into her life. Her curtains were drawn; her apartment was stuffy; she did not want to be visited and made it clear that “there is nothing I can do for anyone.” Undeterred, Isabelle responded, “Yes, there is! You can do something for us by allowing us to come and visit you.” And so Isabelle went, faithfully.
Some time later, this good sister had surgery on her feet, which required her bandages to be changed every day, something she could not do for herself. For days, Isabelle went to her home, washed her feet, and changed her bandages. She never saw ugliness; she never smelled stench. She only ever saw a beautiful daughter of God in need of love and tender care.
Over the years, I and countless others have been blessed by Isabelle’s gift to see as the Lord sees. Whether you are the stake president or the ward greeter, whether you are the king of England or live in a shack, whether you speak her language or a different one, whether you keep all the commandments or struggle with some, she will serve you her very best meal on her very best plates. Economic status, skin color, cultural background, nationality, degree of righteousness, social standing, or any other identifier or label is of no consequence to her. She sees with her heart; she sees the child of God in everyone.
President Russell M. Nelson has taught:
“The adversary rejoices in labels because they divide us and restrict the way we think about ourselves and each other. How sad it is when we honor labels more than we honor each other.
“Labels can lead to judging and animosity. Any abuse or prejudice toward another because of nationality, race, sexual orientation, gender, educational degrees, culture, or other significant identifiers is offensive to our Maker!”5
French is not who I am; it is where I was born. White is not who I am; it is the color of my skin, or lack thereof. Professor is not who I am; it is what I did to support my family. General Authority Seventy is not who I am; it is where I serve in the kingdom at this time.
“First and foremost,” as President Nelson reminded us, I am a “child of God.”6 So are you, and so are all other people around us. I pray that we may come to a greater appreciation of this wonderful truth. It changes everything!
We may have been raised in different cultures; we may come from different socioeconomic circumstances; our mortal heritage, including our nationality, skin color, food preferences, political orientation, etc., may vary greatly. But we are His children, all of us, without exception. We have the same divine origin and the same limitless potential through the grace of Jesus Christ.
C. S. Lewis put it this way: “It is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses, to remember that the dullest most uninteresting person you can talk to may one day be a creature which, if you saw it now, you would be strongly tempted to worship. … There are no ordinary people. You have never talked to a mere mortal. Nations, cultures, arts, civilization—these are mortal, and their life is to ours as the life of a gnat. But it is immortals whom we joke with, work with, marry, snub, and exploit.”7
Our family has been privileged to live in different countries and cultures; our children have been blessed to marry within different ethnicities. I have come to realize that the gospel of Jesus Christ is the great equalizer. As we truly embrace it, “the Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God.”8 This amazing truth frees us, and all labels and distinctions that may otherwise afflict us and our relationships to each other are simply “swallowed up in … Christ.”9 It soon becomes clear that we, as well as others, “are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellowcitizens with the saints, and of the household of God.”10 
I recently heard the branch president of one of our multicultural language units refer to this, as Elder Gerrit W. Gong has done, as covenant belonging.11 What a beautiful concept! We belong to a group of people who all try to place the Savior and their covenants at the center of their lives and to live the gospel joyfully. Hence, rather than our seeing each other through the distorted lens of mortality, the gospel raises our sights and allows us to see each other through the flawless, unchanging lens of our sacred covenants. In so doing, we begin to eliminate our own natural prejudices and biases toward others, which in turn helps them minimize their prejudices and biases toward us,12 in a wonderful virtuous cycle. Indeed, we follow our dear prophet’s invitation: “My dear brothers and sisters, how we treat each other really matters! How we speak to and about others at home, at church, at work, and online really matters. Today, I am asking us to interact with others in a higher, holier way.”13 
This afternoon, in the spirit of that invitation, I wish to add my pledge to that of our wonderful Primary children:


If you don’t walk as most people do,
Some people walk away from you,
But I won’t! I won’t!
If you don’t talk as most people do,
Some people talk and laugh at you,
But I won’t! I won’t!
I’ll walk with you. I’ll talk with you.
That’s how I’ll show my love for you.
Jesus walked away from none.
He gave his love to ev’ryone.
So I will! I will!14


I testify that He whom we address as our Father in Heaven is indeed our Father, that He loves us, that He knows each of His children intimately, that He cares deeply about each one, and that we are truly all alike unto Him. I testify that the way we treat each other is a direct reflection of our understanding of and appreciation for the ultimate sacrifice and Atonement of His Son, our Savior, Jesus Christ. I pray that, like Him, we may love others because that is the right thing to do, not because they are doing the right thing or fitting the “right” mold. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


1 Samuel 16:7.


Acts 9:15.


2 Nephi 26:33.


Jacob 2:21.


Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022), Gospel Library.


Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity.”


C. S. Lewis, The Weight of Glory and Other Addresses (1949), 14–15.


Romans 8:16.


Alma 31:38.


Ephesians 2:19.


See Gerrit W. Gong, “Covenant Belonging,“ Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 80–83.


See Dale G. and Ruth L. Renlund, The Melchizedek Priesthood: Understanding the Doctrine, Living the Principles (2018), 112.


Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,“ Liahona, May 2023, 99.


“I’ll Walk with You,” Children’s Songbook, 140–41.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Think Celestial!","year":"2023","month":"10"}



Think Celestial!

By President Russell M. Nelson
President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Your choices will determine where you will live throughout eternity, the kind of body with which you will be resurrected, and those with whom you will live forever.


My dear brothers and sisters, I am deeply grateful to speak with you today. At my age, each new day brings wonderful as well as challenging surprises. Three weeks ago, I injured the muscles of my back. So, while I have delivered more than 100 general conference addresses standing, today I thought I would do so sitting. I pray that the Spirit will carry my message into your hearts today.
I recently celebrated my 99th birthday and thus commenced my 100th year of living. I am often asked the secret to living so long. A better question would be “What have I learned in nearly a century of living?”
Time today does not allow me to answer that question fully, but may I share one of the most crucial lessons I have learned.
I have learned that Heavenly Father’s plan for us is fabulous, that what we do in this life really matters, and that the Savior’s Atonement is what makes our Father’s plan possible.1
As I have wrestled with the intense pain caused by my recent injury, I have felt even deeper appreciation for Jesus Christ and the incomprehensible gift of His Atonement. Think of it! The Savior suffered “pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind”2 so that He can comfort us, heal us, rescue us in times of need.3 Jesus Christ described His experience in Gethsemane and on Calvary: “Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore.”4 My injury has caused me to reflect again and again on “the greatness of the Holy One of Israel.”5 During my healing, the Lord has manifested His divine power in peaceful and unmistakable ways.
Because of Jesus Christ’s infinite Atonement, our Heavenly Father’s plan is a perfect plan! An understanding of God’s fabulous plan takes the mystery out of life and the uncertainty out of our future. It allows each of us to choose how we will live here on earth and where we will live forever. The baseless notion that we should “eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us”6 is one of the most absurd lies in the universe.
Here is the great news of God’s plan: the very things that will make your mortal life the best it can be are exactly the same things that will make your life throughout all eternity the best it can be! Today, to assist you to qualify for the rich blessings Heavenly Father has for you, I invite you to adopt the practice of “thinking celestial”!7 Thinking celestial means being spiritually minded. We learn from the Book of Mormon prophet Jacob that “to be spiritually-minded is life eternal.”8

Mortality is a master class in learning to choose the things of greatest eternal import. Far too many people live as though this life is all there is. However, your choices today will determine three things: where you will live throughout all eternity, the kind of body with which you will be resurrected, and those with whom you will live forever. So, think celestial.
In my first message as President of the Church, I encouraged you to begin with the end in mind. This means making the celestial kingdom your eternal goal and then carefully considering where each of your decisions while here on earth will place you in the next world.9
The Lord has clearly taught that only men and women who are sealed as husband and wife in the temple, and who keep their covenants, will be together throughout the eternities. He said, “All covenants, contracts, bonds, obligations, oaths, vows, performances, connections, associations, or expectations, that are not made and entered into and sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise … have an end when men are dead.”10
Thus, if we unwisely choose to live telestial laws now, we are choosing to be resurrected with a telestial body. We are choosing not to live with our families forever.
So, my dear brothers and sisters, how and where and with whom do you want to live forever? You get to choose.11
When you make choices, I invite you to take the long view—an eternal view. Put Jesus Christ first because your eternal life is dependent upon your faith in Him and in His Atonement.12 It is also dependent upon your obedience to His laws. Obedience paves the way for a joyful life for you today and a grand, eternal reward tomorrow.
When you are confronted with a dilemma, think celestial! When tested by temptation, think celestial! When life or loved ones let you down, think celestial! When someone dies prematurely, think celestial. When someone lingers with a devastating illness, think celestial. When the pressures of life crowd in upon you, think celestial! As you recover from an accident or injury, as I am doing now, think celestial!
As you focus on thinking celestial, expect to encounter opposition.13 Decades ago, a professional colleague criticized me for having “too much temple” in me, and more than one supervisor penalized me because of my faith. I am convinced, however, that thinking celestial enhanced my career.
As you think celestial, your heart will gradually change. You will want to pray more often and more sincerely. Please don’t let your prayers sound like a shopping list. The Lord’s perspective transcends your mortal wisdom. His response to your prayers may surprise you and will help you to think celestial.
Consider the Lord’s response to Joseph Smith when he pleaded for relief in Liberty Jail. The Lord taught the Prophet that his inhumane treatment would give him experience and be for his good.14 “If thou endure it well,” the Lord promised, “God shall exalt thee on high.”15 The Lord was teaching Joseph to think celestial and to envision an eternal reward rather than focus on the excruciating difficulties of the day. Our prayers can be—and should be—living discussions with our Heavenly Father.
As you think celestial, you will find yourself avoiding anything that robs you of your agency. Any addiction—be it gaming, gambling, debt, drugs, alcohol, anger, pornography, sex, or even food—offends God. Why? Because your obsession becomes your god. You look to it rather than to Him for solace. If you struggle with an addiction, seek the spiritual and professional help you need. Please do not let an obsession rob you of your freedom to follow God’s fabulous plan.
Thinking celestial will also help you obey the law of chastity. Few things will complicate your life more quickly than violating this divine law. For those who have made covenants with God, immorality is one of the quickest ways to lose your testimony.
Many of the adversary’s most relentless temptations involve violations of moral purity. The power to create life is the one privilege of godhood that Heavenly Father allows His mortal children to exercise. Thus, God set clear guidelines for the use of this living, divine power. Physical intimacy is only for a man and a woman who are married to each other.
Much of the world does not believe this, but public opinion is not the arbiter of truth. The Lord has declared that no unchaste person will attain the celestial kingdom. So when you make decisions regarding morality, please think celestial. And if you have been unchaste, I plead with you to repent. Come unto Christ and receive His promise of complete forgiveness as you fully repent of your sins.16
As you think celestial, you will view trials and opposition in a new light. When someone you love attacks truth, think celestial, and don’t question your testimony. The Apostle Paul prophesied that “in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils.”17
There is no end to the adversary’s deceptions. Please be prepared. Never take counsel from those who do not believe. Seek guidance from voices you can trust—from prophets, seers, and revelators and from the whisperings of the Holy Ghost, who “will show unto you all things what ye should do.”18 Please do the spiritual work to increase your capacity to receive personal revelation.19
As you think celestial, your faith will increase. When I was a young intern, my income was $15 a month. One night, my wife Dantzel asked if I was paying tithing on that meager stipend. I was not. I quickly repented and began paying the additional $1.50 in monthly tithing.
Was the Church any different because we increased our tithing? Of course not. However, becoming a full-tithe payer changed me. That is when I learned that paying tithing is all about faith, not money. As I became a full-tithe payer, the windows of heaven began to open for me. I attribute several subsequent professional opportunities to our faithful payment of tithes.20
Paying tithing requires faith, and it also builds faith in God and His Beloved Son.
Choosing to live a virtuous life in a sexualized, politicized world builds faith.
Spending more time in the temple builds faith. And your service and worship in the temple will help you to think celestial. The temple is a place of revelation. There you are shown how to progress toward a celestial life. There you are drawn closer to the Savior and given greater access to His power. There you are guided in solving the problems in your life, even your most perplexing problems.
The ordinances and covenants of the temple are of eternal significance. We continue to build more temples to make these sacred possibilities become a reality in each of your lives. We are grateful to announce our plans to build a temple in each of the following 20 locations:


Savai’i, Samoa


Cancún, Mexico


Piura, Peru


Huancayo, Peru


Viña del Mar, Chile


Goiânia, Brazil


João Pessoa, Brazil


Calabar, Nigeria


Cape Coast, Ghana


Luanda, Angola


Mbuji-Mayi, Democratic Republic of the Congo


Laoag, Philippines


Osaka, Japan


Kahului, Maui, Hawaii


Fairbanks, Alaska


Vancouver, Washington


Colorado Springs, Colorado


Tulsa, Oklahoma


Roanoke, Virginia


Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia


The Lord is directing us to build these temples to help us think celestial. God lives. Jesus is the Christ. His Church has been restored to bless all of God’s children. I so testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See John 6:38.


Alma 7:11.


See Alma 7:12.


Doctrine and Covenants 19:18.


2 Nephi 9:40.


2 Nephi 28:7.


It may prove to be easier to repent and progress spiritually here, while our spirit is united with our body, than in the next world between the time we die and are resurrected. As Amulek taught the apostate Zoramites, “This life is the time … to prepare to meet God” (see Alma 34:32–35).


2 Nephi 9:39.


See Mosiah 4:30, where King Benjamin admonishes his people, “If ye do not watch yourselves, and your thoughts, and your words, and your deeds, and observe the commandments of God, and continue in the faith … , ye must perish.”


Doctrine and Covenants 132:7; emphasis added.


Of course, your agency cannot override another’s agency and the attendant consequences. I was desperate to be sealed to my parents. However, I had to wait until they chose to be endowed, when they were more than 80 years of age. Then they were sealed as husband and wife, and we children were sealed to them.


The scriptures repeatedly testify that the gift of eternal life is only possible through the merits, mercy, and grace of the Savior Jesus Christ (see, for example, Moroni 7:41; see also 2 Nephi 2:6–8, 27).


See 2 Nephi 2:11.


See Doctrine and Covenants 122:7.


Doctrine and Covenants 121:8.


See Isaiah 1:16–18; Doctrine and Covenants 58:42–43.


1 Timothy 4:1. The next verse continues, “Speaking lies in hypocrisy; having their conscience seared with a hot iron” (verse 2). Paul also declared that all who “live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution” (2 Timothy 3:12).


2 Nephi 32:5; emphasis added. If we will ask, we may “receive revelation upon revelation, knowledge upon knowledge” (Doctrine and Covenants 42:61).


See Russell M. Nelson, “Revelation for the Church, Revelation for Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 96.


This is not to imply a cause-and-effect relationship. Some who never pay tithing attain professional opportunities, while some who pay tithing do not. The promise is that the windows of heaven will be opened to the tithe payer. The nature of the blessings will vary.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers

Presented by President Dallin H. Oaks
First Counselor in the First Presidency



Brothers and sisters, it will now be my privilege to present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.
Please express your support in the usual way. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals, we ask that you contact your stake president.
It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.
Those in favor may manifest it.
Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and Jeffrey R. Holland as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
Those in favor, please signify.
Any opposed may manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, Ulisses Soares, and Patrick Kearon.
Those in favor, please manifest it.
Any opposed may so indicate.
It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.
All in favor, please manifest it.
Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.
The following General Authorities will be released from their assignments and given emeritus status, effective on August 1, 2024: Elders Ian S. Ardern, Shayne M. Bowen, Paul V. Johnson, S. Gifford Nielsen, Brent H. Nielson, Adrián Ochoa, Gary B. Sabin, and Evan A. Schmutz.
Those who wish to express gratitude to these brethren and their wives for their years of dedicated service throughout the Church may do so by the uplifted hand.
We also release Elder Carlos A. Godoy from serving as a member of the Presidency of the Seventy, effective on August 1, 2024.
Those who wish to express appreciation to Elder Godoy for his service in this capacity may do so.
We note with gratitude the Area Seventies who will complete their service and whose names can be found on the Church’s website.
Those who wish to join in expressing appreciation to these brethren and to their families for their years of selfless service may manifest it.
We extend releases to the Sunday School General Presidency, effective on August 1, 2024, as follows: Mark L. Pace as President, Milton Camargo as First Counselor, and Jan E. Newman as Second Counselor.
All who wish to join in expressing appreciation to these brothers for their devoted service may manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Presidency of the Seventy: Elder Marcus B. Nash, who began his service in January 2024, and Elders Michael T. Ringwood, Arnulfo Valenzuela, and Edward Dube, who will begin their service on August 1, 2024.
Those in favor may manifest it.
Any opposed may manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain the following as General Authority Seventies: David L. Buckner, Gregorio E. Casillas, Aroldo B. Cavalcante, I. Raymond Egbo, D. Martin Goury, Karl D. Hirst, Christopher H. Kim, Sandino Roman, Steven D. Shumway, Michael B. Strong, and Sergio R. Vargas.
All in favor, please manifest it.
Those opposed, by the same sign.
We note that 64 new Area Seventies were sustained during the general conference leadership meetings on Thursday, April 4, and then announced on the Church’s website. We invite you to sustain these brethren in their new assignments.

Those in favor, please manifest it.
Any opposed, by the same sign.
It is proposed that we sustain the following as the new Sunday School General Presidency, to be effective on August 1, 2024: Paul V. Johnson as President, Chad H Webb as First Counselor, and Gabriel W. Reid as Second Counselor.
Those in favor may manifest it.
Any opposed may so signify.
We note that Brother Reid is currently serving as president of the Australia Sydney Mission and is therefore not in Salt Lake City for the conference.
It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers as presently constituted.
All in favor may do so by the uplifted hand.
Those opposed, if any.
Thank you, brothers and sisters, for your continued faith and prayers on behalf of the leadership of the Church.


Changes to Area Seventies

The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership session held as part of general conference:
Daniel A. Abeo, Mauricio A. Araújo, Randy T. Austin, Michel D. Avegnon, Philip J. Barton, Bradley S. Bateman, Eber Antônio Beck, Eric D. Bednar, Jared Black, Bryan G. Borela, Jaime A. Bravo, Juan G. Cardenas, Sancho N. Chukwu, Mark J Cluff, Danilo F. Costales, Daniel A. Cruzado, Gregorio Davalos, Julio N. Del Sero, Ryan E. Dobbs, Stephen W. Dyer, Brik V. Eyre, Denny Fa‘alogo, Timothy L. Farnes, Martín P. Fernández, Luis A. Ferrizo, Ángel J. Gómez, Georgie E. Guidi, Shinjiro Hara, Daniel L. Harris, Todd D. Haynie, Thomas Hengst, John R. Higgins, Niels O. Jensen, Fritzner A. Joseph, Kyoni Kasongo, John S. K. Kauwe III, Dan Kawashima, J. Joseph Kiehl, Carl F. Krauss, Yew Mun Kwan, Woo Cheol Lee, Wai Hung Mak, David R. Marriott, Ignatius Maziofa, Derek B. Miller, Albert Mutariswa, Marvin I. Palomo, Kyung Yeol Park, Domingo J. Perez, Oscar A. Perez, Raul Perez, Gayle L. Pollock, Pierre Portes, Marco A. Quezada, Stephen T. Rockwood, Guillermo Rojas, Kgomotso T. Sehloho, Sandro Alex Silva, Juswan Tandiman, Asuquo E. Udobong, Dwayne J. Van Heerden, Shih Ning (Steve) Yang, Juan F. Zorrilla, Leopoldo Zuñiga.
The following Area Seventies will be released on or before August 1, 2024:
Solomon I. Aliche, Guillermo A. Alvarez, Daren R. Barney, Julius F. Barrientos, James H. Bekker, David L. Buckner, Glenn Burgess, Marcos Cabral, Gregorio E. Casillas, Dunstan G. B. T. Chadambuka, Alan C. K. Cheung, Paul N. Clayton, Michael Cziesla, Hiroyuki Domon, Mernard P. Donato, I. Raymond Egbo, Zachary F. Evans, Sapele Fa‘alogo Jr., Saulo G. Franco, David Frischknecht, John J. Gallego, Efraín R. García, Robert Gordon, Mark A. Gottfredson, D. Martin Goury, Michael J. Hess, Bhanu K. Hiranandani, Richard S. Hutchins, Tito Ibañez, Eustache Ilunga, Akinori Ito, Anthony M. Kaku, Christopher H. Kim, H. Moroni Klein, Stephen Chee Kong Lai, V. Daniel Lattaro, Thabo Lebethoa, Tarmo Lepp, Itzcoatl Lozano, Kevin Lythgoe, Clement M. Matswagothata, Edgar P. Montes, Luiz C. D. Queiroz, Ifano Rasolondraibe, Eduardo D. Resek, Tomás G. Román, Ramon E. Sarmiento, Steven D. Shumway, Luis Spina, Jared W. Stone, Michael B. Strong, Djarot Subiantoro, Carlos G. Süffert, Voi R. Taeoalii, Karim Del Valle, Sergio R. Vargas, Helmut Wondra.


----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Church Auditing Department Report, 2023","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Church Auditing Department Report, 2023

Presented by Jared B. Larson
Managing Director, Church Auditing Department

To the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints


Dear Brethren: Directed by revelation, as recorded in section 120 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Council on the Disposition of the Tithes—composed of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and the Presiding Bishopric—authorizes the expenditure of Church funds. Church entities disburse funds in accordance with approved budgets, policies, and procedures.
Church Auditing, which consists of credentialed professionals and is independent of all other Church departments and entities, has responsibility to perform audits for the purpose of providing reasonable assurance regarding contributions received, expenditures made, and safeguarding of Church assets.
Based upon audits performed, Church Auditing is of the opinion that, in all material respects, contributions received, expenditures made, and assets of the Church for the year 2023 have been recorded and administered in accordance with Church-approved budgets, accounting practices, and policies. The Church follows the practices taught to its members of living within a budget, avoiding debt, and saving against a time of need.
Respectfully submitted,
Church Auditing Department
Jared B. Larson
Managing Director

----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Motions of a Hidden Fire","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Motions of a Hidden Fire

By President Jeffrey R. Holland
Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

God hears every prayer we offer and responds to each of them according to the path He has outlined for our perfection.


Brothers and sisters, I have learned a painful lesson since I last occupied this pulpit in October of 2022. That lesson is: if you don’t give an acceptable talk, you can be banned for the next several conferences. You can see I am assigned early in the first session of this one. What you can’t see is that I am positioned on a trapdoor with a very delicate latch. If this talk doesn’t go well, I won’t see you for another few conferences.
In the spirit of that beautiful hymn with this beautiful choir, I have learned some lessons recently that, with the Lord’s help, I wish to share with you today. That will make this a very personal talk.
The most personal and painful of all these recent experiences has been the passing of my beloved wife, Pat. She was the greatest woman I have ever known—a perfect wife and mother, to say nothing of her purity, her gift of expression, her spirituality. She gave a talk once titled “Fulfilling the Measure of Your Creation.” It seems to me that she fulfilled the measure of her creation more successfully than anyone could have dreamed possible. She was a complete daughter of God, an exemplary woman of Christ. I was the most fortunate of men to spend 60 years of my life with her. Should I prove worthy, our sealing means I can spend eternity with her.
Another experience began 48 hours after my wife’s burial. At that time, I was rushed to the hospital in an acute medical crisis. I then spent the first four weeks of a six-week stay in and out of intensive care and in and out of consciousness.
Virtually all my experience in the hospital during that first period is lost to my memory. What is not lost is my memory of a journey outside the hospital, out to what seemed the edge of eternity. I cannot speak fully of that experience here, but I can say that part of what I received was an admonition to return to my ministry with more urgency, more consecration, more focus on the Savior, more faith in His word.
I couldn’t help but feel I was receiving my own personal version of a revelation given to the Twelve nearly 200 years ago:
“Thou shalt bear record of my name … [and] send forth my word unto the ends of the earth. …
“… Morning by morning; and day after day let thy warning voice go forth; and when the night cometh let not the inhabitants of the earth slumber, because of thy speech. …
“Arise[,] … take up your cross, [and] follow me.”
My beloved sisters and brothers, since that experience, I have tried to take up my cross more earnestly, with more resolve to find where I can raise an apostolic voice of both warmth and warning in the morning, during the day, and into the night.
That leads me to a third truth that came in those months of loss, illness, and distress. It was a renewed witness of and endless gratitude for the resolute prayers of this Church—your prayers—of which I have been the beneficiary. I will be eternally grateful for the supplication of thousands of people who, like the importuning widow, repeatedly sought heaven’s intervention in my behalf. I received priesthood blessings, and I saw my high school class fast for me, as did several random wards across the Church. And my name must have been on the prayer roll of virtually every temple in the Church.
In my profound gratitude for all this, I join G. K. Chesterton, who said once “that thanks are the highest form of thought; and … gratitude is happiness doubled by wonder.” With my own “happiness doubled by wonder,” I thank all of you and thank my Father in Heaven, who heard your prayers and blessed my life.
Brothers and sisters, I testify that God hears every prayer we offer and responds to each of them according to the path He has outlined for our perfection. I recognize that at roughly the same time so many were praying for the restoration of my health, an equal number—including me—were praying for the restoration of my wife’s health. I testify that both of those prayers were heard and answered by a divinely compassionate Heavenly Father, even if the prayers for Pat were not answered the way I asked. It is for reasons known only to God why prayers are answered differently than we hope—but I promise you they are heard and they are answered according to His unfailing love and cosmic timetable.
If we “ask not amiss,” there are no limits to when, where, or about what we should pray. According to the revelations, we are to “pray always.” We are to pray, Amulek said, for “those who are around you,” with the belief that the “fervent prayer of a righteous [people] availeth much.” Our prayers ought to be vocal when we have the privacy to so offer them. If that is not practical, they should be carried as silent utterances in our heart. We sing that prayers are “motion[s] of a hidden fire,” always to be offered, according to the Savior Himself, to God the Eternal Father in the name of His Only Begotten Son.
My beloved friends, our prayers are our sweetest hour, our most “sincere desire,” our simplest, purest form of worship. We should pray individually, in our families, and in congregations of all sizes. We are to employ prayer as a shield against temptation, and if there be any time we feel not to pray, we can be sure that hesitancy does not come from God, who yearns to communicate with His children at any and all times. Indeed, some efforts to keep us from praying come directly from the adversary. When we don’t know how or exactly for what to pray, we should begin, and continue, until the Holy Spirit guides us into the prayer we should be offering. This approach may be the one we have to invoke when praying for our enemies and those who despitefully use us.
Ultimately, we can look to the example of the Savior, who prayed so very, very often. But it has always been intriguing to me that Jesus felt the need to pray at all. Wasn’t He perfect? About what did He need to pray? Well, I have come to realize that He too, with us, wanted to “seek [the Father’s] face, believe his word, and trust his grace.” Time after time, He retreated from society to be alone before piercing heaven with His prayers. At other times, He prayed in the company of a few companions. Then He would seek heaven on behalf of multitudes who would cover a hillside. Sometimes prayer glorified His clothing. Sometimes it glorified His countenance. Sometimes He stood to pray, sometimes He knelt, and at least once He fell on His face in prayer.
Luke describes Jesus’s descent into His expiation as requiring Him to pray “more earnestly.” How does one who was perfect pray more earnestly? We assume that all of His prayers were earnest, yet in fulfilling His atoning sacrifice and through the pain that attended its universal reach, He felt to pray ever more pleadingly, with the weight of His offering finally bringing blood from every pore.
Against that backdrop of Christ’s victory over death and His recent gift to me of a few more weeks or months in mortality, I bear solemn witness of the reality of eternal life and the need for us to be serious in our planning for it.
I bear witness that when Christ comes, He needs to recognize us—not as nominal members listed on a faded baptismal record but as thoroughly committed, faithfully believing, covenant-keeping disciples. This is an urgent matter for all of us, lest we ever hear with devastating regret: “I never knew you,” or, as Joseph Smith translated that phrase, “[You] never knew me.”
Fortunately, we have help for this task—lots of help. We need to believe in angels and miracles and the promises of the holy priesthood. We need to believe in the gift of the Holy Ghost, the influence of good families and friends, and the power of the pure love of Christ. We need to believe in revelation and prophets, seers, and revelators and President Russell M. Nelson. We need to believe that with prayer and pleading and personal righteousness, we really can ascend to “Mount Zion, … the city of the living God, the heavenly place, the holiest of all.”
Brothers and sisters, as we repent of our sins and come boldly to the “throne of grace,” leaving before Him there our alms and our heartfelt supplications, we will find mercy and compassion and forgiveness at the benevolent hands of our Eternal Father and His obedient, perfectly pure Son. Then, with Job and all the refined faithful, we will behold a world “too wonderful” to understand. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Doctrine and Covenants 112:4–5, 14.


See Luke 18:1–8.


G. K. Chesterton, A Short History of England (1917), 72.


2 Nephi 4:35.


Luke 21:36; see also Alma 13:28; 34:27; Doctrine and Covenants 23:6.


Alma 34:27; see also 2 Thessalonians 1:11; Alma 34:21.


James 5:16.


See Psalm 55:17.


See Mosiah 24:10–12; Alma 34:27; 3 Nephi 20:1; Doctrine and Covenants 19:28.


“Prayer Is the Soul’s Sincere Desire,” Hymns, no. 145.


See 3 Nephi 18:19–21.


See “Sweet Hour of Prayer,” Hymns, no. 142.


Hymns, no. 145.


See Alma 33:3.


See Matthew 14:23; 18:19–20; 3 Nephi 18:16, 21–24, 30; Helaman 3:35.


See Matthew 6:13; Luke 22:40; 3 Nephi 18:15; Doctrine and Covenants 10:5.


See 2 Nephi 32:8; Joseph Smith—History 1:15–16.


See Romans 8:26; 3 Nephi 19:24; Doctrine and Covenants 50:30.


See Matthew 5:44.


Hymns, no. 142.


See Matthew 14:23.


See Matthew 17:2; Mark 9:3; Luke 9:29; 3 Nephi 19:25.


See Matthew 17:2; Luke 9:29; 3 Nephi 19:25.


See Matthew 26:39; Mark 14:35.


Luke 22:44.


Matthew 7:23.


Joseph Smith Translation, Matthew 7:33 (in Matthew 7:23, footnote a).


Doctrine and Covenants 76:66.


Hebrews 4:16.


Job 42:3.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Put Ye On the Lord Jesus Christ","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Put Ye On the Lord Jesus Christ

By Sister J. Anette Dennis
First Counselor in the Relief Society General Presidency

Through honoring our covenants, we enable God to pour out the multitude of promised blessings associated with those covenants.


As my two youngest children were growing, I discovered books that were entertaining and engaging but also used symbolism in their stories. As we read together in the evenings, I loved helping my children understand the symbolism the author was using to teach deeper principles, even gospel principles.
I knew this was sinking in one day when my younger son was in his early teens. He had started a new book and just wanted to enjoy the story, but his mind kept trying to find the deeper meaning in everything he was reading. He was frustrated, but I was smiling inside.
Jesus taught through stories and symbols—a mustard seed to teach the power of faith, a lost sheep to teach the worth of souls, a prodigal son to teach the character of God. His parables were symbols through which He could teach deeper lessons to those who had “ears to hear.” But those not seeking the deeper meaning would not understand, just as many who read those same books I read to my children never knew there were deeper meanings and so much more to get out of those stories.
When God the Father offered His Only Begotten Son as a sacrifice for us, Jesus Christ Himself became the highest symbol of our Father in Heaven’s undying love for each of us. Jesus Christ became the Lamb of God.
We have the privilege and blessing of being invited into a covenant relationship with God, in which our own lives can become a symbol of that covenant. Covenants create the kind of relationship that allows God to mold and change us over time and lift us to become more like the Savior, drawing us closer and closer to Him and our Father and eventually preparing us to enter Their presence.
Each person on earth is a beloved son or daughter of God. When we choose to be part of a covenant, it enhances and deepens our relationship with Him. President Russell M. Nelson has taught that when we choose to make covenants with God, our relationship with Him can become much closer than it was before our covenant, and it enables Him to bless us with an extra measure of His mercy and love, a covenantal love referred to as hesed in the Hebrew language. The covenant path is all about our relationship with God—our hesed relationship with Him.
Our Father wants a deeper relationship with all His sons and daughters, but it is our choice. As we choose to draw nearer to Him through a covenant relationship, it allows Him to draw nearer to us and more fully bless us.
God sets the conditions and obligations of the covenants we make. When we choose to enter into that relationship, we witness to Him, through the symbolic actions of each covenant, that we are willing to abide by the conditions He has set. Through honoring our covenants, we enable God to pour out the multitude of promised blessings associated with those covenants, including increased power to change and become more like our Savior. Jesus Christ is at the center of all covenants we make, and covenant blessings are made possible because of His atoning sacrifice.
Baptism by immersion is the symbolic gate through which we enter into a covenant relationship with God. Being immersed in the water and coming up again is symbolic of the Savior’s death and Resurrection to new life. As we are baptized, we symbolically die and are born again into the family of Christ and show we are willing to take His name upon us. We ourselves embody that covenant symbolism. In the New Testament we read, “For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ.” With our baptism we symbolically put on Christ.
The ordinance of the sacrament also points to the Savior. The bread and water are symbolic of Christ’s flesh and blood shed for us. The gift of His Atonement is symbolically offered to us each week when a priesthood holder, representing the Savior Himself, offers us the bread and water. As we perform the action of eating and drinking the emblems of His flesh and blood, Christ symbolically becomes a part of us. We again put on Christ as we make a new covenant each week.
As we make covenants with God in the house of the Lord, we further deepen our relationship with Him. Everything we do in the temple points to our Father’s plan for us, at the heart of which is the Savior and His atoning sacrifice. The Lord will teach us line upon line through the symbolism of the ordinances and covenants as we open our hearts and prayerfully seek to understand the deeper meanings.
As part of the temple endowment, we are authorized to wear the garment of the holy priesthood. It is both a sacred obligation and a sacred privilege.
In many religious traditions, special outer clothing is worn as a symbol of a person’s beliefs and commitment to God, and ceremonial clothing is often worn by those leading worship services. Those sacred vestments carry deep meaning for those who wear them. We read in scripture that in ancient times, sacred ceremonial clothing was also worn in conjunction with temple rituals.
As members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, those of us who have chosen to make covenants with God in the house of the Lord wear sacred ceremonial outer clothing during temple worship, symbolic of the clothing worn in ancient temple rituals. We also wear the garment of the holy priesthood, both during temple worship and in our everyday lives.
The garment of the holy priesthood is deeply symbolic and also points to the Savior. When Adam and Eve partook of the fruit and had to leave the Garden of Eden, they were given coats of skins as a covering for them. It is likely that an animal was sacrificed to make those coats of skins—symbolic of the Savior’s own sacrifice for us. Kaphar is the basic Hebrew word for atonement, and one of its meanings is “to cover.” Our temple garment reminds us that the Savior and the blessings of His Atonement cover us throughout our lives. As we put on the garment of the holy priesthood each day, that beautiful symbol becomes a part of us.
In the New Testament book of Romans, we read: “The night is far spent, the day is at hand: let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light. … Put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ.”
I am so grateful for the privilege of wearing the garment of the holy priesthood to remind me that the Savior and the blessings of His infinite Atonement constantly cover me throughout my mortal journey. It also reminds me that as I keep the covenants I have made with God in the house of the Lord, I have symbolically put on Christ, who Himself is an armor of light. He will protect me from evil, give me power and increased capacity, and be my light and guide through the darkness and difficulties of this world.
There is deep and beautiful symbolic meaning in the garment of the holy priesthood and its relationship to Christ. I believe that my willingness to wear the holy garment becomes my symbol to Him. It is my own personal sign to God, not a sign to others.
I am so grateful for my Savior, Jesus Christ. His atoning sacrifice for us became the greatest symbol of His and our Father in Heaven’s infinite love for each of us, with the tangible symbols of that love and sacrifice—the marks in the Savior’s hands, feet, and side—remaining even after His Resurrection.
As I keep my covenants and obligations with God, including wearing the garment of the holy priesthood, my very life can become a personal symbol of my love and deep gratitude for my Savior, Jesus Christ, and my desire to have Him with me always.
If you have not yet done so, I invite you to choose a deeper relationship with God by making covenants with Him in the house of the Lord. Study the talks of our prophet (including the beautiful teachings in the footnotes of his talks, which most conference talks have). He has spoken repeatedly about covenants for years and especially since becoming President of the Church. Learn from his teachings about the beautiful blessings and increased power and capacity that can be yours through making and keeping covenants with God.

The General Handbook states that it is not required to have a mission call or be engaged to be married to make temple covenants. A person must be at least 18 years old, no longer be attending high school or the equivalent, and be a member of the Church for at least one year. There are also standards of personal holiness required. If you have the desire to deepen your relationship with your Father in Heaven and Jesus Christ by making sacred covenants in the house of the Lord, I invite you to speak with your bishop or branch president and let him know of your desires. He will help you know how to prepare to receive and honor those covenants.
Through a covenant relationship with God, our own lives can become a living symbol of our commitment to and deep love for our Father in Heaven, our hesed for Him, and our desire to progress and eventually become like our Savior, being prepared to one day enter Their presence. I testify that the great blessings of that covenant relationship are well worth the price. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Mark 4:33–34.


See Matthew 17:20.


See Luke 15:3–7.


See Luke 15:11–32.


Matthew 13:9.


See Matthew 13:10–13.


See John 3:16–17.


See John 1:29; 1 Nephi 11:20–22; see also Russell M. Nelson, “The Atonement,” Ensign, Nov. 1996, 34–35.


“By entering into a covenant with us, God not only binds us to Him, but it is as if He straps us on His back and takes us where only He can go” (Kerry Muhlestein, God Will Prevail: Ancient Covenants, Modern Blessings, and the Gathering of Israel [2021], 8). See Doctrine and Covenants 133:53.


“All human beings—male and female—are created in the image of God. Each is a beloved spirit son or daughter of heavenly parents, and, as such, each has a divine nature and destiny” (“The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library).


“Hesed is a … term describing a covenant relationship in which both parties are bound to be loyal and faithful to each other. … Because God has hesed for those who have covenanted with Him, … He will continue to work with them and offer them opportunities to change. … And should they stray, He will help them find their way back to Him,” just as He did time and time again with His covenant people in Old Testament times. “When we enter a covenant with God, we have made a covenant with Him who will always keep His word. He will do everything He can, without infringing on our agency, to help us keep ours” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” Liahona, Oct. 2022, 6, 11; see also Muhlestein, God Will Prevail, 9–12; Deuteronomy 7:9).


God will never abandon His covenant relationships. “He will never tire in His efforts to help us, and we will never exhaust His merciful patience with us” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 6). We are joyfully bound together through an everlasting covenant.


See Jeremiah 31:33; 1 Nephi 17:40; Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 92.


See James 4:8; Doctrine and Covenants 88:63.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Covenants,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2011, 86.


See Mosiah 5:5; 18:8–10.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Spiritual Treasures,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 77; Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 94; Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 96; Camille N. Johnson, “Jesus Christ Is Relief,” Liahona, May 2023, 82; Dale G. Renlund, “Accessing God’s Power through Covenants,” Liahona, May 2023, 35–37; Jean B. Bingham, “Covenants with God Strengthen, Protect, and Prepare Us for Eternal Glory,” Liahona, May 2022, 66.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 7.


See Romans 6:3–4; Colossians 2:12.


See 2 Nephi 31:13; Moroni 6:3; Doctrine and Covenants 20:77.


Galatians 3:27.


See Luke 22:19–20.


See John 6:56.


President Russell M. Nelson said: “Often, I hear the expression that we partake of the sacrament to renew covenants made at baptism. While that’s true, it’s much more than that. I’ve made a new covenant. You have made new covenants” (in Dale G. Renlund, “Unwavering Commitment to Jesus Christ,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 25, footnote 18).


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 10.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” 93–94.


See 2 Nephi 28:30.


See “Sacred Temple Clothing,” ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See Exodus 28; 40:12–13.


See “Sacred Temple Clothing,” ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See Genesis 3:21.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Atonement,” 34.


Romans 13:12, 14.


See Ephesians 6:10–18.


See Mosiah 24:13–15; David A. Bednar, “Bear Up Their Burdens with Ease,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2014, 88–89.


See Psalm 119:105; 1 Nephi 17:13.


Elder Neal A. Maxwell taught, “The submission of one’s will is really the only uniquely personal thing we have to place on God’s altar” (“Swallowed Up in the Will of the Father,” Ensign, Nov. 1995, 24).


Not because of personal preference, inconvenience, or style, but because of certain medical conditions, for some people, wearing the garment is much more difficult. The Lord knows our hearts and understands our desires to honor our commitments with Him. See, for example, Mosiah 4:24–25.


We should not seek to judge others’ use of the temple garment. See Alma 41:14; see also Dieter F. Uchtdorf, “The Merciful Obtain Mercy,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2012, 70, 75.


See Jeffrey R. Holland, “None Were with Him,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2009, 86–88.


See John 3:16–17; 15:12–13; Doctrine and Covenants 34:3.


See Isaiah 49:14–16.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 4–11; Russell M. Nelson, “Spiritual Treasures,” 76–79; Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” 92–95; Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” 93–96; Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” 95–98; Russell M. Nelson, “A Plea to My Sisters,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2015, 95–97.


See General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 26.5.1, 27.2.2, Gospel Library.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Closing Remarks,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 121.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 11.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Pillars and Rays","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Pillars and Rays

By Elder Alexander Dushku
Of the Seventy

We too can have our own pillar of light—one ray at a time.


My message is for those who worry about their testimony because they haven’t had overwhelming spiritual experiences. I pray that I can provide some peace and assurance.
The Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ began with an explosion of light and truth! A teenage boy in upstate New York, with the very ordinary name of Joseph Smith, enters a grove of trees to pray. He’s worried about his soul and his standing before God. He seeks forgiveness for his sins. And he’s confused about which church to join. He needs clarity and peace—he needs light and knowledge.
As Joseph kneels to pray and “offer up the desires of [his] heart to God,” a thick darkness envelops him. Something evil, oppressive, and very real tries to stop him—to bind his tongue so he cannot speak. The forces of darkness get so intense that Joseph thinks he’s going to die. But he “exert[s] all [his] powers to call upon God to deliver [him] out of the power of this enemy which [has] seized upon [him].” And then, “at the very moment when [he’s] ready to sink into despair and abandon [him]self to destruction,” when he doesn’t know if he can hang on any longer, a glorious brilliance fills the grove, scattering the darkness and the enemy of his soul.
A “pillar of light” brighter than the sun gradually descends upon him. One personage appears, and then another. Their “brightness and glory defy all description.” The first, our Heavenly Father, speaks his name, “pointing to the other—[Joseph!] This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!”
And with that overwhelming burst of light and truth, the Restoration has begun. A veritable flood of divine revelation and blessings will follow: new scripture, restored priesthood keys, apostles and prophets, ordinances and covenants, and the reestablishment of the Lord’s true and living Church, which will someday fill the earth with the light and witness of Jesus Christ and His restored gospel.
All that, and much more, began with a boy’s desperate prayer and a pillar of light.
We too have our own desperate needs. We too need freedom from spiritual confusion and worldly darkness. We too need to know for ourselves. That is one reason President Russell M. Nelson has invited us to “immerse [ourselves] in the glorious light of the Restoration.”
One of the great truths of the Restoration is that the heavens are open—that we too can receive light and knowledge from on high. I testify that is true.
But we must be wary of a spiritual trap. Sometimes faithful Church members become discouraged and even drift away because they haven’t had overwhelming spiritual experiences—because they haven’t experienced their own pillar of light. President Spencer W. Kimball warned, “Always expecting the spectacular, many will miss entirely the constant flow of revealed communication.”
President Joseph F. Smith likewise recalled, “The Lord withheld marvels from me [when I was young], and showed me the truth, line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little.”
That is the Lord’s typical pattern, brothers and sisters. Rather than sending us a pillar of light, the Lord sends us a ray of light, and then another, and another.
Those rays of light are continuously being poured down upon us. The scriptures teach that Jesus Christ “is the light and … life of the world,” that His “Spirit giveth light to every man [and woman] that cometh into the world,” and that His light “fill[s] the immensity of space,” giving “life to all things.” The Light of Christ is literally all around us.
If we have received the gift of the Holy Ghost and are striving to exercise faith, repent, and honor our covenants, then we are worthy to receive these divine rays constantly. In Elder David A. Bednar’s memorable phrase, “we are ‘living in revelation.’”
And yet, every one of us is different. No two people experience God’s light and truth in exactly the same way. Take some time to think about how you experience the light and Spirit of the Lord.
You may have experienced these bursts of light and testimony as “peace [spoken] to your mind concerning [a] matter” that has worried you.
Or as an impression—a still, small voice—that settled “in your mind and in your heart” and urged you to do something good, such as helping someone.
Perhaps you’ve been in a class at church—or at a youth camp—and felt a strong desire to follow Jesus Christ and stay faithful. Maybe you even stood and shared a testimony that you hoped was true and then felt it was.
Or maybe you’ve been praying and felt a joyful assurance that God loves you.
You may have heard someone bear testimony of Jesus Christ, and it touched your heart and filled you with hope.
Perhaps you were reading in the Book of Mormon and a verse spoke to your soul, as if God had put it there just for you—and then you realized that He did.
You may have felt the love of God for others as you served them.
Or maybe you struggle to feel the Spirit in the moment because of depression or anxiety but have the precious gift and the faith to look back and recognize past “tender mercies of the Lord.”
My point is that there are many ways to receive heavenly rays of testimony. These are just a few, of course. They may not be dramatic, but all of them form part of our testimonies.
Brothers and sisters, I have not seen a pillar of light, but, like you, I have experienced many divine rays. Over the years, I’ve tried to treasure such experiences. I find that as I do, I recognize and remember even more of them. Here are some examples from my own life. They may not be very impressive to some, but they are precious to me.
I remember being a rowdy teenager at a baptism. As the meeting was about to begin, I felt the Spirit urge me to sit down and be reverent. I sat down and stayed quiet the rest of the meeting.
Before my mission, I was afraid my testimony wasn’t strong enough. No one in my family had ever served a mission, and I didn’t know if I could do it. I remember studying and praying desperately to receive a more certain witness of Jesus Christ. Then one day, as I pled with Heavenly Father, I felt a powerful sense of light and warmth. And I knew. I just knew.
I remember being awakened one night years later by a feeling of “pure intelligence” telling me I would be called to serve in the elders quorum. Two weeks later I was called.
I remember a general conference where a beloved member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles spoke the exact words of testimony I had told a friend I hoped to hear.
I remember kneeling with hundreds of brethren to pray for a dear friend who lay unconscious on a ventilator in a small, faraway hospital after his heart had stopped. As we united our own hearts to plead for his life, he woke up and pulled the ventilator out of his own throat. He serves today as a stake president.
And I remember waking up with strong spiritual feelings after a vivid dream of a dear friend and mentor who passed away far too early, leaving an enormous hole in my life. He was smiling and joyful. I knew he was OK.
These are some of my rays. You have had your own experiences—your own light-filled bursts of testimony. As we recognize, remember, and gather these rays “together in one,” something wonderful and powerful begins to happen. “Light cleaveth unto light”—“truth embraceth truth.” The reality and power of one ray of testimony reinforces and combines with another, and then another, and another. Line upon line, precept upon precept, here a ray and there a ray—one small, treasured spiritual moment at a time—there grows up within us a core of light-filled, spiritual experiences. Perhaps no one ray is strong enough or bright enough to constitute a full testimony, but together they can become a light that the darkness of doubt cannot overcome.
“O then, is not this real?” Alma asks. “I say unto you, Yea, because it is light.”
“That which is of God is light,” the Lord teaches us, “and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day.”
That means, brothers and sisters, that in time and through “great diligence,” we too can have our own pillar of light—one ray at a time. And in the midst of that pillar, we too will find a loving Heavenly Father calling us by name, pointing us to our Savior, Jesus Christ, and inviting us to “Hear Him!”
I bear witness of Jesus Christ, that He is the light and life of the whole world—and of your personal world and mine.
I testify that He is the true and living Son of the true and living God and that He stands at the head of this true and living Church, guided and directed by His true and living prophets and apostles.
May we recognize and receive His glorious light and then choose Him over the darkness of the world—always and forever. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Joseph Smith—History 1:10–13.


See Joseph Smith—History 1:14–16.


See Joseph Smith, Journal, Nov. 9–11, 1835, 24, josephsmithpapers.org.


Joseph Smith—History 1:17.


See Joseph Smith—History 1:20. When Joseph Smith returned home after the First Vision, his mother asked if he was OK. He replied, “I am well enough off. … I have learned for myself that Presbyterianism is not true” (emphasis added).


Russell M. Nelson, “Closing Remarks,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 122.


Spencer W. Kimball, in Conference Report, Munich Germany Area Conference, 1973, 77; quoted in Graham W. Doxey, “The Voice Is Still Small,” Ensign, Nov. 1991, 25.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph F. Smith (1998), 201: “When I as a boy first started out in the ministry, I would frequently go out and ask the Lord to show me some marvelous thing, in order that I might receive a testimony. But the Lord withheld marvels from me, and showed me the truth, line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little, until he made me to know the truth from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet, and until doubt and fear had been absolutely purged from me. He did not have to send an angel from the heavens to do this, nor did he have to speak with the trump of an archangel. By the whisperings of the still small voice of the Spirit of the living God, he gave to me the testimony I possess. And by this principle and power he will give to all the children of men a knowledge of the truth that will stay with them, and it will make them to know the truth, as God knows it, and to do the will of the Father as Christ does it.”


Mosiah 16:9.


Doctrine and Covenants 84:46; see also John 1:9.


Doctrine and Covenants 88:12–13.


David A. Bednar, The Spirit of Revelation (2021), 7.


Doctrine and Covenants 6:23.


Doctrine and Covenants 8:2; see also Helaman 5:30.


See Mosiah 5:2; Doctrine and Covenants 11:12.


See 2 Nephi 4:21; Helaman 5:44.


The Lord has identified the ability to believe on the testimony of others as a spiritual gift (see Doctrine and Covenants 46:13–14).


Modern revelation teaches that the words of scripture “are given by my Spirit unto you, … and save it were by my power you could not have them; wherefore, you can testify that you have heard my voice, and know my words” (Doctrine and Covenants 18:35–36).


See Mosiah 2:17; Moroni 7:45–48.


1 Nephi 1:20. Elder Gerrit W. Gong has spoken of “look[ing] with eyes to see and rejoic[ing] in the Lord’s many tender mercies in our lives” (“Ministering,” Liahona, May 2023, 18) and of how “the Lord’s hand in our lives is often clearest in hindsight” (“Always Remember Him,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2016, 108). The gift of gratefully recognizing and acknowledging the hand of the Lord in our lives, even if we didn’t recognize it or feel it in the moment, is powerful. The scriptures speak often of the spiritual power of remembering (see Helaman 5:9–12; Doctrine and Covenants 20:77, 79), which can be a precursor to revelation (see Moroni 10:3–4).


Joseph Smith taught, “A person may profit by noticing the first intimation of the spirit of revelation; for instance, when you feel pure intelligence flowing into you, it may give you sudden strokes of ideas, so that by noticing it, you may find it fulfilled the same day or soon; (i.e.) those things that were presented unto your minds by the Spirit of God, will come to pass; and thus by learning the Spirit of God and understanding it, you may grow into the principle of revelation, until you become perfect in Christ Jesus” (Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith [2007], 132).


Ephesians 1:10.


Doctrine and Covenants 88:40: “For intelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; wisdom receiveth wisdom; truth embraceth truth; virtue loveth virtue; light cleaveth unto light.”


Alma 32:35. Alma emphasized that these light-filled experiences, although often small, are real in every sense. Their reality becomes even more powerful when they are combined together to form a powerful whole.


Doctrine and Covenants 50:24.


Alma 32:41.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Covenant Confidence through Jesus Christ","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Covenant Confidence through Jesus Christ

By Elder Ulisses Soares
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

When we enter the Lord’s house, we embark on a sacred journey of learning to become higher and holier disciples of Christ.


My beloved brothers and sisters, I pray that we may be spiritually renewed by the inspired messages from our leaders this weekend and rejoice in what I love to call “covenant confidence through Jesus Christ.” This confidence is the quiet yet certain assurance of receiving the blessings that God promises for those who keep their covenants and is so needed amid the challenging circumstances of our day.
The construction of new houses of the Lord across the world, under the inspired leadership of President Russell M. Nelson, has caused great rejoicing among Church members and serves as an important symbol of the expansion of the Lord’s kingdom.
Reflecting on my awe-inspiring experience at the dedication of the Feather River California Temple last October, I wondered if sometimes we get lost in the excitement of having new temples in our cities and communities and neglect the holier purpose of the sacred covenants made in the temple.
Inscribed on the front of each temple is a solemn statement: “Holiness to the Lord.” These inspired words are a clear invitation that when we enter the Lord’s house, we embark on a sacred journey of learning to become higher and holier disciples of Christ. As we make covenants in holiness before God and commit to follow the Savior, we receive the power to change our hearts, renew our spirits, and deepen our relationship with Him. Such an endeavor brings sanctification to our souls and forms a sacred bond with God and Jesus Christ, who promise that we can inherit the gift of eternal life. The result of this sacred journey is that we obtain a holier and higher confidence for our day-to-day lives within our covenants made through Jesus Christ.
Such confidence is the pinnacle of our divine connection with God and can help us increase our devotion to and gratitude for Jesus Christ and His atoning sacrifice. It fortifies our ability to love and serve others, and it strengthens our souls to live in an unholy world that is increasingly dark and discouraging. It empowers us to overcome the seeds of doubt and despair, fear and frustration, heartache and hopelessness that the enemy tries to drive deep into our hearts, especially when life is hard, trials are long, or circumstances are difficult. A biblical verse offers sound advice for each of us as we lean into the stiff wind of today’s worldly challenges: “Cast not away therefore your confidence.”
Dear brothers and sisters, those who gain genuine confidence in the covenants made in the house of the Lord through Jesus Christ possess one of the most powerful forces that we can access in this life.
As we have studied the Book of Mormon in Come, Follow Me this year, we have witnessed how Nephi beautifully exemplified the power of this type of covenant confidence through his faithfulness when he faced setbacks and challenges, like getting the plates as commanded by the Lord. Nephi, despite being exceedingly sorrowful for the fear and lack of faith of Laman and Lemuel, remained confident that the Lord would deliver the plates to them. He said unto his brothers, “As the Lord liveth, and as we live, we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us.” Because of Nephi’s confidence in the Lord’s promises, he was able to accomplish what he had been commanded to do. Later, in his vision, Nephi beheld the influence of this type of confidence, writing, “I, Nephi, beheld the power of the Lamb of God, that it descended upon the saints of the church of the Lamb, and upon the covenant people of the Lord, … and they were armed with righteousness and with the power of God in great glory.”
I have seen firsthand the Lord’s loving promises and power flowing into the lives of God’s children, strengthening them to face life’s circumstances. The other day my wife came home after her worship in the temple and told me how deeply touched she was by what she experienced there. As she entered the house of the Lord, she saw a man in a wheelchair moving very slowly and a woman walking with great difficulty using a cane, both courageously coming to worship the Lord in His house. As my wife walked into the initiatory area, she saw a sweet sister who was missing one arm—and had only part of another arm—beautifully and celestially performing any tasks she was given.
As my wife and I talked about that experience, we concluded that only pure and heartfelt confidence in the eternal promises God provides through the holy covenants made with Him in His house could cause those marvelous disciples of Christ to leave their homes on that very freezing day, despite their personal life circumstances.
My dear friends, if there is one thing we could possess—and one thing we could pass on to our children and grandchildren that would help each in the tests and trials ahead—it would be confidence in the covenants made through Jesus Christ. Obtaining such a divine possession will help them live as the Lord promised His faithful followers: “My disciples shall stand in holy places, and shall not be moved.”
How do we gain such confidence through Jesus Christ? It comes through humility, centering our lives on the Savior, living by the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, receiving the ordinances of salvation and exaltation, and honoring the covenants we make with God in His holy house.
In his closing remarks at the October 2019 general conference, our dear prophet reminded us about an important step in achieving covenant confidence, saying: “Individual worthiness to enter the Lord’s house requires much individual spiritual preparation. … Individual worthiness requires a total conversion of mind and heart to be more like the Lord, to be an honest citizen, to be a better example, and to be a holier person.” Therefore, if we change our preparation to enter the temple, we will change our experience in the temple, which will transform our lives outside of the temple. “Then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven.”
A bishop I know refers to the oldest class in Primary not as a “Primary” class but as a “temple preparation” class. In January the bishop has the class members and their teachers come to his office, where they talk about how they will spend the entire year preparing to enter the temple. The bishop takes time to go through the applicable temple recommend interview questions, which are then included in their Primary lessons. He invites the children to be prepared so that when they come to the bishop’s office in one year, they will be confident, covenant confident, ready to receive a temple recommend and enter the Lord’s house. This year the bishop had four young girls who were so excited, prepared, and confident to go to the temple that they wanted the bishop to print their recommends on New Year’s Day at 12:01 a.m.
Preparation isn’t just for those going to the temple for the first time. We all should be perpetually preparing to go to the house of the Lord. One stake I know has adopted the motto “Home centered, Church supported, and temple bound.” Bound is an interesting word in that it means focused on a direction, but it also means fastened to or secured by, resolved and determined, sure. So being temple bound secures us to the Savior, giving us proper direction and stability while ensuring we have covenant confidence through Jesus Christ. Therefore, all of us should intentionally enhance such binding by having our next appointment scheduled with the Lord in His holy house, whether the temple is near or far away.
Our dear prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, reminds us about these vital principles by saying: “The temple lies at the center of strengthening our faith and spiritual fortitude because the Savior and His doctrine are the very heart of the temple. Everything taught in the temple, through instruction and through the Spirit, increases our understanding of Jesus Christ. His essential ordinances bind us to Him through sacred priesthood covenants. Then, as we keep our covenants, He endows us with His healing, strengthening power. And oh, how we will need His power in the days ahead.”
The Savior desires that we become prepared to understand, with great clarity, exactly how to act as we make covenants with our Heavenly Father in His name. He wants us to be prepared to experience our privileges, promises, and responsibilities; to be prepared to have the spiritual insights and awakenings that we need in this life. I know that when the Lord sees even a spark of desire or a flicker of righteous effort in our willingness to center our lives on Him and on the ordinances and covenants we make in His house, He will bless us, in His perfect way, with the miracles and tender mercies we need.
The house of the Lord is where we can be transformed in higher and holier ways. So, when we walk out of the temple, transformed by our hope in the promises of the covenants, armed with power from on high, we take the temple with us into our homes and lives. I assure you that having the spirit of the Lord’s house in us changes us, completely.

We also know from the temple that if we want the Spirit of the Lord to be unrestrained in our lives, we simply cannot and must not have unkind feelings toward anyone. Giving place in our hearts or minds for unkind feelings or thoughts will produce unkind words and actions, whether on social media or in our homes, causing the Spirit of the Lord to withdraw from our hearts. Therefore, please cast not away your confidence, but rather, let your confidence wax strong.
The ongoing and accelerating building of temples will continue to excite, inspire, and bless us. Yet more important, as we change our preparation to enter the temple, we will change our experience in the temple, which will transform our lives outside of the temple. May this transformation fill us with confidence in our holy covenants made with God through Jesus Christ. God lives, Jesus is our Savior, and this is His restored Church on earth. I reverently declare these truths in the sacred name of our Savior, Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Exodus 28:36; 39:30; Psalm 93:5. Translated equivalents are used on temples in non-English-speaking localities.


See Doctrine and Covenants 14:7; 132:19–20, 24.


Hebrews 10:35.


1 Nephi 3:15.


See 1 Nephi 4:6–38.


1 Nephi 14:14.


Doctrine and Covenants 45:32.


Russell M. Nelson, “Closing Remarks,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 121–22.


Doctrine and Covenants 121:45.


See Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, “bound.”


See Russell M. Nelson, “Becoming Exemplary Latter-day Saints,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 114.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 93–94.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Integrity: A Christlike Attribute","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Integrity: A Christlike Attribute

By Elder Jack N. Gerard
Of the Seventy

Living a life of integrity requires us to be true to God, to each other, and to our divine identity.


In the closing hours of the Savior’s ministry, He went to the Mount of Olives into a garden called Gethsemane and invited His disciples to wait. Now alone, He petitioned His Father, “If thou be willing, remove this cup from me.” Being in agony, His suffering caused Him, “even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, … and would that [He] might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink.” Yet in the moment of deep despair, the Savior did not shrink “but partook and finished [His] preparations unto the children of men.”
As the Only Begotten of the Father, Jesus Christ had power over death, pain, and suffering but did not shrink. He fulfilled the covenant He had made with His Father and, in doing so, manifested a Christlike attribute increasingly important in the world in which we live—the attribute of integrity. He remained true to God, to each of us, and to His divine identity.


Integrity

Jesus Christ is our Exemplar. Living a life of integrity requires us to be true to God, to each other, and to our divine identity. Integrity flows from the first great commandment to love God. Because you love God, you are true to Him at all times. You understand that there is right and wrong and there is absolute truth—God’s truth. Integrity means we do not lower our standards or behavior to impress or to be accepted by others. You “do what is right” and “let the consequence follow.” Recent revisions to the Preach My Gospel missionary manual notably added integrity as a Christlike attribute.
A number of years ago, Elder Uchtdorf was assigned to reorganize our stake. During our interview, he asked me a question I have not forgotten: “Has there been anything in your life that, if brought to the attention of the public, would be an embarrassment to you or the Church?” Surprised, my mind quickly raced over my entire life, trying to recall those moments when I may have fallen short and asking myself, “If others knew everything I had done, what would they think of me or the Church?”
In the moment, I thought Elder Uchtdorf was only asking about worthiness, but I’ve come to understand it was really a question about integrity. Was I true to what I professed? Would the world see consistency between my words and my deeds? Would others see God through my conduct?

President Spencer W. Kimball taught, “Integrity” is our “willingness and ability to live by our beliefs and commitments.”



True to God

A life of integrity requires us to first and foremost be true to God.
From our early childhood, we learned the story of Daniel in the lions’ den. Daniel was always true to God. His jealous peers “sought to find occasion against [him]” and contrived a decree mandating prayers to their gods alone. Daniel knew of the decree but went home and—with “his windows being open”—knelt and prayed three times a day to the God of Israel. As a result, Daniel was cast into the lions’ den. On the morn, the king found Daniel’s God had delivered him and issued a new decree that all should “tremble and fear before the God of Daniel: for he is the living God.”
The king came to know God through Daniel’s integrity. Others see God through ours—words and deeds. Just like Daniel, being true to God will increasingly set us apart from the world.
The Savior reminds us, “In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.” President Russell M. Nelson counseled: “[Overcoming the world] means overcoming the temptation to care more about the things of this world than the things of God. It means trusting the doctrine of Christ more than the philosophies of men.” Likewise, we must resist the temptation to walk “in [our] own way, and after the image of [our] own god, whose image is in the likeness of the world.”
The oppositional pull of this world is an essential part of God’s plan of salvation. How we respond to the pull is the essence of who we are—a measure of our integrity. The worldly pull can be as direct as to destroy fidelity in marriage or as subtle as posting anonymous comments critical of Church doctrine or culture. Exercising integrity in our choices is an outward expression of an inner commitment to follow the Savior Jesus Christ.



True to Others

Just as integrity flows from the first great commandment to love God, being true to each other flows from the second, to love our neighbors as ourselves. A life of integrity is not a life of perfection; it is a life in which we strive every day to foremost be true to God and within that context to be true to others. President Oaks reminds us, “Our zeal to keep [the] second commandment must not cause us to forget the first.”
The world increasingly grapples with integrity by imposing codes of conduct or ethical rules that govern the relationships between people and institutions. While good, these rules are generally not anchored in absolute truth and tend to evolve based on cultural acceptance. Similar to the question posed by Elder Uchtdorf, some organizations train employees to consider what their decisions or decision-making process would look like if published online or on the front page of a major newspaper. As the Church comes out of obscurity and darkness, we, like Daniel, must rise above the worldly expectations and become the face of the true and living God at all times and in all places.
Saying we have integrity is insufficient if our actions are inconsistent with our words. Likewise, Christian kindness is not a substitute for integrity. As a covenant people, and as leaders of His Church, we must be beyond reproach and aligned with the standards the Lord has set.
Acting with integrity builds faith and trust and reassures others that we seek only to do the will of the Lord. In our councils, we resist outside influences and follow the Lord’s revealed process, seeking insights from each woman and man and acting consistent with the inspired counsel received.
Our focus is on the Savior, and we are careful to avoid actions that may be perceived as serving our own interests, benefiting our family, or favoring someone at the expense of another. We go out of our way to avoid any perception that our actions may be influenced by the honors of men, to receive personal recognition, generate more likes, be quoted or published.



True to Our Divine Identity

Finally, a life of integrity requires us to be true to our divine identity.
We know some who were not. Of particular significance is the anti-Christ Korihor, who led away the hearts of many, appealing to their “carnal mind.” Yet, in the final moments of his life, he confessed, “I always knew that there was a God.” President Henry B. Eyring has taught that lying “is contrary to the nature of our spirits,” our divine identity. Korihor deceived himself, and the truth was not in him.
In contrast, the Prophet Joseph Smith confidently proclaimed, “I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it.”
Joseph’s brother Hyrum was loved by the Lord “because of the integrity of his heart.” He and Joseph remained true to the end—true to their divine identity, the light and knowledge they received, and true to the person they knew they could become.




Conclusion

May we reconcile ourselves “to the will of God” and develop the Christlike attribute of integrity. May we follow our Exemplar, the Savior of the world, and not shrink but live a life that is true to God, to each other, and to our divine identity.
As Job said, “Let me be weighed in an even balance, that God may know mine integrity.” In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Matthew 26:30, 36; Luke 22:39–41.


Luke 22:42.


Doctrine and Covenants 19:18.


Doctrine and Covenants 19:19.


See Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ (2023), 129.


“Do What Is Right,” Hymns, no. 237.


See Preach My Gospel, 128–29.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Spencer W. Kimball (2006), 126.


Daniel 6:4.


Daniel 6:10.


Daniel 6:26.


John 16:33.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 96.


Doctrine and Covenants 1:16.


Dallin H. Oaks, “Two Great Commandments,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 73.


See Doctrine and Covenants 1:30.


See Mosiah 18:9.


See Doctrine and Covenants 42:2–3; see also General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 4.3, Gospel Library.


See Doctrine and Covenants 121:35.


Alma 30:53.


Alma 30:52.


Henry B. Eyring, “Going Home” (Brigham Young University devotional, Nov. 18, 1986), 5, speeches.byu.edu.


See 1 John 1:8.


Joseph Smith—History 1:25.


Doctrine and Covenants 124:15.


2 Nephi 10:24.


Job 31:6.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"All Will Be Well Because of Temple Covenants","year":"2024","month":"04"}



All Will Be Well Because of Temple Covenants

By President Henry B. Eyring
Second Counselor in the First Presidency

There is nothing more important than honoring the covenants you have made or may make in the temple.


My beloved brothers and sisters, this session of general conference has been, for me, a sacred time. I am grateful for the assignment to speak to the millions of Latter-day Saints and our friends across the world. I love you, and I know the Lord loves you.
Over 50 years ago, I had the privilege to serve as the president of Ricks College in Rexburg, Idaho. On the morning of June 5, 1976, my wife, Kathy, and I drove from Rexburg to the Idaho Falls Idaho Temple to attend the sealing of a close friend. Of course, with four young boys in our home at the time, our temple trip could be only accomplished with the help of a courageous babysitter! We left our precious children in her care and made the short, 30-minute drive.
Our experience in the temple that day was wonderful, as it always was. However, after the conclusion of the temple sealing—and as we were preparing to return home—we noticed many temple workers and patrons nervously conversing in the lobby of the temple. Within moments, one of the temple workers told us that the newly constructed Teton Dam in eastern Idaho had collapsed! More than 80 billion gallons (300 million cubic meters) of water were flowing through the dam and into the 300 square miles (775 square km) of neighboring valleys. Much of the city of Rexburg was underwater, with homes and vehicles carried away by floodwaters. Two-thirds of the 9,000 residents were suddenly homeless.
As you might imagine, our thoughts and concerns turned to the safety of our dear children, hundreds of college students and faculty, and a community we loved. We were less than 30 miles (50 km) from home, and yet on this day, long before cell phones and text messaging, we had no way of communicating immediately with our children, nor could we make the drive from Idaho Falls to Rexburg, as all the roads had been closed.
Our only option was to stay the night in a local motel in Idaho Falls. Kathy and I knelt together in our motel room and humbly pleaded with Heavenly Father for the safety of our dear children and the thousands of others affected by the tragic event. I recall Kathy pacing the floors into the early hours of the morning with worry about her children. Despite my own concerns, I was able to put my mind at ease and fall asleep.

It wasn’t long thereafter that my sweet eternal companion woke me and said, “Hal, how can you sleep at a time like this?”
These words then came clearly to my heart and mind. I said to my wife: “Kathy, whatever the outcome, all will be well because of the temple. We have made covenants with God and have been sealed as an eternal family.”
At that moment, it was as if the Spirit of the Lord confirmed in our hearts and minds what we both already knew to be true: the sealing ordinances, found only in the house of the Lord and administered by proper priesthood authority, had bound us together as husband and wife, and our children had been sealed to us. There truly was no need to fear, and we were grateful later to learn that our boys were safe.
Perhaps this statement from President Thomas S. Monson best illustrates what Kathy and I felt on that unforgettable night. “As we attend the temple, there can come to us a dimension of spirituality and a feeling of peace. … We will grasp the true meaning of the words of the Savior when He said: ‘Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. … Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid [John 14:27].’”
I have been blessed to feel that peace every time I enter the sacred temple. I recall the first day I walked into the Salt Lake Temple. I was a young man.
I looked up at a high white ceiling that made the room so light it seemed almost as if it were open to the sky. And in that moment, the thought came into my mind in clear words: “I have been in this lighted place before.” But then immediately there came into my mind, not in my own voice, these words: “No, you have never been here before. You are remembering a moment before you were born. You were in a sacred place like this where the Lord could come.”
Brothers and sisters, I humbly testify that as we attend the temple, we can be reminded of the eternal nature of our spirits, our relationship with the Father and His divine Son, and our ultimate desire to return to our heavenly home.
In recent conference addresses, President Russell M. Nelson taught:
“The safest place to be spiritually is living inside your temple covenants!”
“Everything we believe and every promise God has made to His covenant people come together in the temple.”
“Each person who makes covenants … in temples—and keeps them—has increased access to the power of Jesus Christ.”
He also taught that “once we make a covenant with God, we leave neutral ground forever. God will not abandon His relationship with those who have forged such a bond with Him. In fact, all those who have made a covenant with God have access to a special kind of love and mercy.”
Under President Nelson’s inspired leadership, the Lord has accelerated, and will continue to accelerate, the building of temples across the world. This will allow all of God’s children the opportunity to receive the ordinances of salvation and exaltation and to make and keep sacred covenants. Qualifying to make sacred covenants is not a one-time effort but a lifetime pattern. The Lord has said it will take our full heart, might, mind, and strength.
Frequent participation in the ordinances of the temple can create a pattern of devotion to the Lord. When you keep your temple covenants and remember them, you invite the companionship of the Holy Ghost to both strengthen and purify you.
You may then experience a feeling of light and hope testifying that the promises are true. You will come to know that every covenant with God is an opportunity to draw closer to Him, which will then create a desire in your heart to keep temple covenants.
We have been promised, “Because of our covenant with God, He will never tire in His efforts to help us, and we will never exhaust His merciful patience with us.”
It is through the sealing covenants in the temple that we can receive the assurance of loving family connections that will continue after death and last for eternity. Honoring marriage and family covenants made in temples of God will provide protection from the evil of selfishness and pride.
Consistent care of brothers and sisters for each other will come only with persistent efforts to lead your family in the Lord’s way. Give children opportunities to pray for each other. Discern quickly the beginnings of discord, and positively recognize acts of unselfish service, especially to one another. When siblings pray for each other and serve each other, hearts will be softened and turned to each other and to their parents.
In part, that is what is described by Malachi as he foretold of the coming of the prophet Elijah: “He shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming.”
Trials, challenges, and heartaches will surely come to all of us. None of us are immune from “thorns of the flesh.” Yet, as we attend the temple and remember our covenants, we can prepare to receive personal direction from the Lord.
When Kathy and I were married and sealed in the Logan Utah Temple, then-Elder Spencer W. Kimball performed our sealing. In the few words he spoke, he gave this counsel: “Hal and Kathy, live so that when the call comes, you can walk away easily.”
Initially, we did not understand what that counsel meant for us, but we did our best to live our lives in such a way that we would be prepared to leave to serve the Lord when the call came. After we had been married nearly 10 years, an unanticipated call did come from the Commissioner of Church Education, Neal A. Maxwell.
The loving counsel given by President Kimball in the temple to be able to “walk away easily” became a reality. Kathy and I received a call to leave what seemed an idyllic family situation in California to serve in an assignment and in a place that I knew nothing about. However, our family was ready to leave because a prophet, in a holy temple, a place of revelation, saw a future event for which we were then prepared.
My dear brothers and sisters, I bear witness that there is nothing more important than honoring the covenants you have made or may make in the temple. No matter where you are on the covenant path, I urge you to qualify and become eligible to attend the temple. Visit as frequently as circumstances will allow. Make and keep sacred covenants with God. I can assure you of the same truth I shared with Kathy in the middle of the night nearly five decades ago in an Idaho Falls motel room: “No matter the outcome, all will be well because of temple covenants.”
I give you my sure witness that Jesus is the Christ. He lives and leads His Church. Temples are houses of the Lord. President Russell M. Nelson is God’s living prophet on the earth. I love him, and I love each of you. In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See “1976: The Teton Dam Failed, KTVB Captured the Aftermath from the Air,” ktvb.com.


Thomas S. Monson, “Blessings of the Temple,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2015, 91–92; emphasis added.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 96, 94.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 96.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” Liahona, Oct. 2022, 5.


See Doctrine and Covenants 59:5.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 6.


Joseph Smith—History 1:39.


See 2 Corinthians 12:7–10.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"“Be Still, and Know That I Am God”","year":"2024","month":"04"}



“Be Still, and Know That I Am God”

By Elder David A. Bednar
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

We can be still and know that God is our Heavenly Father, we are His children, and Jesus Christ is our Savior.


During a recent open house and media day for a new house of the Lord, I led a group of journalists on a tour through the sacred structure. I described the purposes of temples in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and responded to their many excellent questions.
Before entering the celestial room, I explained that this particular room in the house of the Lord symbolically represents the peace and beauty of the heavenly home to which we can return after this life. I indicated to our guests that we would not speak while in the celestial room, but I would be happy to answer any questions after we moved to the next stop on the tour.
After exiting the celestial room and as we gathered at the next location, I asked our guests if they had any observations they wanted to share. One of the journalists said with great emotion, “I have never experienced anything like that in my entire life. I did not know quiet like that existed in the world; I simply did not believe such stillness was possible.”
I was struck by both the sincerity and the starkness of this person’s statement. And the journalist’s reaction highlighted one important aspect of stillness—overcoming and tuning out the commotion of our external environment.
As I later pondered the journalist’s comment and reflected on the often hectic pace of our modern lives—the busyness, noise, diversions, distractions, and detours that so often seem to demand our attention—a scripture came to my mind: “Be still, and know that I am God.”
I pray the Holy Ghost will enlighten each of us as we consider a higher and holier dimension of stillness in our lives—an inner spiritual stillness of the soul that enables us to know and remember that God is our Heavenly Father, we are His children, and Jesus Christ is our Savior. This remarkable blessing is available to all Church members who are striving faithfully to become “covenant people of the Lord.”


Be Still

In 1833, the Saints in Missouri were the targets of intense persecution. Mobs had driven them from their homes in Jackson County, and some Church members had tried to establish themselves in other nearby counties. But the persecution continued, and the threats of death were many. In these challenging circumstances, the Lord revealed the following instruction to the Prophet Joseph Smith in Kirtland, Ohio:
“Therefore, let your hearts be comforted concerning Zion; for all flesh is in mine hands; be still and know that I am God.”
I believe the Lord’s admonition to “be still” entails much more than simply not talking or not moving. Perhaps His intent is for us to remember and rely upon Him and His power “at all times and in all things, and in all places that [we] may be in.” Thus, “be still” may be a way of reminding us to focus upon the Savior unfailingly as the ultimate source of the spiritual stillness of the soul that strengthens us to do and overcome hard things.



Build upon the Rock

True faith is always focused in and on the Lord Jesus Christ—in Him as the Divine and Only Begotten Son of the Eternal Father and on Him and the redemptive mission He fulfilled.
“For he hath answered the ends of the law, and he claimeth all those who have faith in him; and they who have faith in him will cleave unto every good thing; wherefore he advocateth the cause of the children of men.”
Jesus Christ is our Redeemer, our Mediator, and our Advocate with the Eternal Father and the rock upon which we should build the spiritual foundation of our lives.
Helaman explained, “Remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation; that when the devil shall send forth his mighty winds, yea, his shafts in the whirlwind, yea, when all his hail and his mighty storm shall beat upon you, it shall have no power over you to drag you down to the gulf of misery and endless wo, because of the rock upon which ye are built, which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fall.”
The symbolism of Christ as the “rock” upon whom we should build the foundation of our lives is most instructive. Please note in this verse that the Savior is not the foundation. Rather, we are admonished to build our personal spiritual foundation upon Him.
The foundation is the part of a building that connects it to the ground. A strong foundation provides protection from natural disasters and many other destructive forces. A proper foundation also distributes the weight of a structure over a large area to avoid overloading the underlying soil and provides a level surface for construction.

A strong and reliable connection between the ground and a foundation is essential if a structure is to remain sturdy and stable over time. And for particular types of construction, anchor pins and steel rods can be used to attach the foundation of a building to “bedrock,” the hard, solid rock beneath surface materials such as soil and gravel.

In a similar way, the foundation of our lives must be connected to the rock of Christ if we are to remain firm and steadfast. The sacred covenants and ordinances of the Savior’s restored gospel can be compared to the anchor pins and steel rods used to connect a building to bedrock. Every time we faithfully receive, review, remember, and renew sacred covenants, our spiritual anchors are secured ever more firmly and steadfastly to the “rock” of Jesus Christ.
“Wherefore, whoso believeth in God might with surety hope for a better world, yea, even a place at the right hand of God, which hope cometh of faith, maketh an anchor to the souls of men, which would make them sure and steadfast, always abounding in good works, being led to glorify God.”
Incrementally and increasingly “in process of time,” “virtue [garnishes our] thoughts unceasingly,” our “confidence [waxes stronger and stronger] in the presence of God,” and “the Holy Ghost [is our] constant companion.” We become more grounded, rooted, established, and settled. As the foundation of our lives is built upon the Savior, we are blessed to “be still”—to have a spiritual assurance that God is our Heavenly Father, we are His children, and Jesus Christ is our Savior.



Sacred Times, Holy Places, and the Home

The Lord provides both sacred times and holy places to help us experience and learn about this inner stillness of our souls.
For example, the Sabbath is God’s day, a sacred time set apart to remember and worship the Father in the name of His Son, to participate in priesthood ordinances, and to receive and renew sacred covenants. Each week we worship the Lord during our home study and also as “fellowcitizens with the saints” during sacrament and other meetings. On His holy day, our thoughts, actions, and demeanor are signs we give to God and an indicator of our love for Him. Every Sunday, if we will, we can be still and know that God is our Heavenly Father, we are His children, and Jesus Christ is our Savior.
A central feature of our Sabbath worship is to “go to the house of prayer and offer up [our] sacraments upon [the Lord’s] holy day.” The “house[s] of prayer” in which we gather on the Sabbath are meetinghouses and other approved facilities—holy places of reverence, worship, and learning. Each meetinghouse and facility is dedicated by priesthood authority as a place where the Spirit of the Lord may dwell and where God’s children may come “to the knowledge of their Redeemer.” If we will, we can “be still” in our holy places of worship and know ever more surely that God is our Heavenly Father, we are His children, and Jesus Christ is our Savior.
The temple is another holy place specifically set apart for worshipping and serving God and learning eternal truths. We think, act, and dress differently in the house of the Lord from any other places that we may frequent. In His holy house, if we will, we can be still and know that God is our Heavenly Father, we are His children, and Jesus Christ is our Savior.
The principal purposes of sacred time and holy places are exactly the same: to repeatedly focus our attention upon Heavenly Father and His plan, the Lord Jesus Christ and His Atonement, the edifying power of the Holy Ghost, and the promises associated with the sacred ordinances and covenants of the Savior’s restored gospel.
Today I repeat a principle I previously have emphasized. Our homes should be the ultimate combination of both sacred time and holy place wherein individuals and families can “be still” and know that God is our Heavenly Father, we are His children, and Jesus Christ is our Savior. Leaving our homes to worship on the Sabbath and in the house of the Lord certainly is essential. But only as we return to our homes with the spiritual perspective and strength obtained in those holy places and activities can we then sustain our focus upon the primary purposes of mortal life and overcome the temptations so prevalent in our fallen world.
Our ongoing Sabbath, temple, and home experiences should fortify us with the power of the Holy Ghost, with an ongoing and stronger covenant connection to the Father and the Son, and with “a perfect brightness of hope” in God’s eternal promises.
As home and Church are gathered together in one in Christ, we may be troubled on every side, but we will not be distressed in our minds and hearts. We may be perplexed by our circumstances and challenges, but we will not be in despair. We may be persecuted, but we will also recognize that we are never alone. We can receive spiritual strength to become and remain firm, steadfast, and true.



Promise and Testimony

I promise that as we build the foundation of our lives on the “rock” of Jesus Christ, we can be blessed by the Holy Ghost to receive an individual and spiritual stillness of the soul that enables us to know and remember that God is our Heavenly Father, we are His children, Jesus Christ is our Savior, and we can be blessed to do and overcome hard things.
I joyfully witness that God is our Heavenly Father, we are His children, and Jesus Christ is our Redeemer and the “rock” of our salvation. I so testify in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Psalm 46:10; see also Doctrine and Covenants 101:16.


1 Nephi 14:14.


Doctrine and Covenants 101:16; emphasis added.


Mosiah 18:9.


Moroni 7:28.


See Mosiah 15:6–9.


See 2 Nephi 2:27–28.


See Moroni 7:28.


Helaman 5:12; emphasis added.


Ephesians 2:19–20 indicates that the “household of God” (the Church of Jesus Christ) is “built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone.” Thus, in the analogy used in Ephesians, Jesus Christ is the central component in the foundation upon which His Church is built.
In contrast, Helaman 5:12 indicates that “it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation” (emphasis added). Thus, the foundation upon which we should build our lives is the “rock of our Redeemer,” “a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fall.” Thus, in the analogy used in Helaman, Jesus Christ is the “bedrock” upon which we should build our individual lives.


Ether 12:4; emphasis added.


See Moses 7:18, 21.


Doctrine and Covenants 121:45–46.


See Colossians 1:23; 2:7; 2 Peter 1:12; Neal A. Maxwell, “Overcome … Even As I Also Overcame,” Ensign, May 1987, 70–72.


Ephesians 2:19.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Sabbath Is a Delight,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2015, 130.


Doctrine and Covenants 59:9.


Mosiah 18:30.


2 Nephi 31:20.


See Ephesians 1:10.


See 2 Corinthians 4:8–9.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Rise! He Calleth Thee","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Rise! He Calleth Thee

By Elder Massimo De Feo
Of the Seventy

The gospel is not a way to avoid challenges and problems but a solution to increase our faith and learn how to deal with them.


Some time ago I asked my wife, “Can you tell me why, as far as I remember, we have never had any major problems in our lives?”
She looked at me and said, “Sure. I’ll tell you why we have never had any major problems; it’s because you have a very short memory!”
Her quick and smart answer made me realize once again that living the gospel of Jesus Christ does not remove pain and trials, which are necessary to grow.
The gospel is not a way to avoid challenges and problems but a solution to increase our faith and learn how to deal with them.
I had a sense of this truth a few months ago when I was walking one day and suddenly my sight became blurry, dark, and wavy. I was scared. Then the doctors told me, “If you don’t begin treatment immediately, you may lose your sight even in a matter of weeks.” I was even more scared.
And then they said, “You need intravitreal injections—injections right in the eye, wide-open eye—every four weeks for the rest of your life.”
That was an uncomfortable wake-up call.
Then a reflection came in the form of a question. I asked myself, “OK! My physical sight is not good, but what about my spiritual vision? Do I need any treatment there? And what does it mean to have a clear spiritual vision?”
I pondered about the story of a blind man called Bartimaeus, described in the Gospel of Mark. The scripture says, “And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, and say, Jesus, thou Son of David, have mercy on me.”
Technically, in the eyes of many, Jesus was just the son of Joseph, so why did Bartimaeus call Him “Son of David”? Simply because he recognized that Jesus was indeed the Messiah, who was prophesied to be born as a descendant of David.
It is interesting that this blind man, who didn’t have physical sight, recognized Jesus. He saw spiritually what he couldn’t see physically, while many others could see Jesus physically but were totally blind spiritually.
From this story we learn more about clear spiritual vision.
We read, “And many charged him that he should hold his peace: but he cried the more a great deal, Thou Son of David, have mercy on me.”
All around him were telling him to be quiet, but he cried out even more because he knew who Jesus really was. He ignored those voices and screamed even louder.
He acted instead of being acted upon. Despite his limited circumstances, he used his faith to go beyond his limitations.
So, the first principle we learn is we keep a clear spiritual vision when we focus on Jesus Christ and stay true to what we know to be true.
Brothers and sisters, to keep our spiritual sight intact, we need to decide not to listen to the voices of the world around us. In this confusing and confused world, we must stay faithful to what we know, faithful to our covenants, faithful in keeping the commandments and reaffirm our beliefs even stronger, like this man did. We need to cry even louder our testimony of the Lord to the world. This man knew Jesus, stayed faithful to what he believed, and was not distracted by the voices around him.
There are many voices today trying to lower our voices as disciples of Jesus Christ. The voices of the world are trying to silence us, but that’s exactly why we must declare our testimony of the Savior louder and stronger. Among all the voices of the world, the Lord is counting on me and you to declare our testimonies, to raise our voice, and to become His voice. If we don’t do it, who will testify of Jesus Christ? Who will speak His name and declare His divine mission?
We have a spiritual charge that comes from our knowledge of Jesus Christ.
But what did Bartimaeus do after that?
At the Lord’s command to rise, he acted again in faith.
The scripture says, “And he, casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus.”
This humble and faithful man understood that he could rise to a better life at Jesus’s command. He knew that he was better than his circumstances, and the very first thing he did when he heard Jesus calling him was to throw away his beggar’s coat.
Again he acted instead of being acted upon.
He might have thought, “I don’t need this anymore, now that Jesus has come into my life. This is a new day. I’m done with this life of misery. With Jesus I can start a new life of happiness and joy in Him, with Him, and through Him. And I don’t care what the world thinks of me. Jesus is calling me, and He will help me live a new life.”
What a remarkable change!
As he threw away his beggar’s coat, he got rid of all excuses.
And this is a second principle: we keep a clear spiritual vision when we leave the natural man behind, repent, and begin a new life in Christ.
The way to do it is by making and keeping covenants to rise to a better life through Jesus Christ.
As long as we make excuses to feel sorry for ourselves, sorry for our circumstances and problems, and sorry for all the bad things happening in our lives and even all the bad people who we think make us unhappy, we keep the beggar’s coat on our shoulders. It is true that at times people, consciously or not, hurt us. But we need to decide to act with faith in Christ by removing the mental and emotional coat that we might still wear to hide excuses or sin and throw it away, knowing that He can and will heal us.
There is never a good excuse to say, “I am the way I am because of some unfortunate and unpleasant circumstances. And I cannot change, and I am justified.”
When we think that way, we decide to be acted upon.

We keep the beggar’s coat.
Acting in faith means to rely on our Savior, believing that through His Atonement, we can rise above everything at His command.
The third principle is in the last four words: “[he] came to Jesus.”
How could he go to Jesus since he was blind? The only way was to walk toward Jesus by hearing His voice.
And this is a third principle: we keep a clear spiritual vision when we hear the voice of the Lord and allow Him to guide us.
Just as this man raised his voice over the voices around him, he was able to listen to the voice of the Lord in the middle of all other voices.
This is the same faith that allowed Peter to walk on water as long as he kept his spiritual focus on the Lord and was not distracted by the winds around him.
Then the story of this blind man ends with the words “he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.”
One of the most important lessons in this story is that this man exercised true faith in Jesus Christ and received a miracle because he asked with real intent, the real intent to follow Him.
And this is the ultimate reason for the blessings we receive in our lives, which is to follow Jesus Christ. It is about recognizing Him, making and keeping covenants with God because of Him, changing our very nature through Him, and enduring to the end by following Him.
For me, keeping a clear spiritual vision is all about focusing on Jesus Christ.
So is my spiritual sight clear as I get my eye injections? Well, who am I to say? But I am grateful for what I see.
I clearly see the hand of the Lord in this sacred work and in my life.
I see the faith of many wherever I go who strengthen my own faith.
I see angels all around me.
I see the faith of many who don’t see the Lord physically but recognize Him spiritually, because they know Him intimately.
I testify that this gospel is the answer for everything, because Jesus Christ is the answer for everyone. I am grateful for what I can see as I follow my Savior.
I promise that as we hear the voice of the Lord and allow Him to guide us on the Savior’s covenant path, we will be blessed with clear vision, spiritual understanding, and peace of heart and mind throughout our lives.
May we cry our testimony of Him louder than the voices around us in a world that needs to hear more of Jesus Christ and not less. May we remove the beggar’s coat that we might still wear and rise above the world to a better life in and through Christ. May we get rid of all excuses not to follow Jesus Christ and find all good reasons to follow Him as we hear His voice. This is my prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Mark 10:47.


See Isaiah 11:1; Jeremiah 23:5; Matthew 21:9.


Mark 10:48.


Mark 10:50.


Mark 10:52.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"A Record of What I Have Both Seen and Heard","year":"2024","month":"04"}



A Record of What I Have Both Seen and Heard

By Elder Brent H. Nielson
Of the Presidency of the Seventy

There has never been a better time to be a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.


After I graduated from law school, my wife, Marcia, and I chose to join a law firm that specialized in trial law. As I began my on-the-job training, I spent much of my time preparing witnesses to testify at trial. I quickly learned that facts were determined in a courtroom as witnesses, under oath, testified to the truthfulness of what they had both seen and heard. As witnesses testified, their words were both recorded and preserved. The importance of credible witnesses was always at the forefront of my preparation.
It didn’t take long for me to realize that the very same terms I was using every day as a lawyer were also the terms I used in my gospel conversations. “Witness” and “testimony” are terms that we use as we share our knowledge and feelings about the truthfulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
When I was sustained as a new Area Seventy, I opened the scriptures to learn my duties and read Doctrine and Covenants 107:25, which states, “The Seventy are also called … to be especial witnesses unto the Gentiles and in all the world.” As you can imagine, my eyes were drawn to the term “especial witnesses.” It became clear to me that I had a responsibility to bear my witness—to testify of the name of Jesus Christ—wherever I traveled in the world.
There are many examples in the scriptures of those who were eyewitnesses and who testified to what they both saw and heard.
As the ancient prophet Mormon begins his record, he writes, “And now I, Mormon, make a record of the things which I have both seen and heard, and call it the Book of Mormon.”
The Savior’s Apostles Peter and John healed a man in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. When commanded not to speak in the name of Jesus, they responded:
“Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye.
“For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.”
Another compelling testimony comes from the Book of Mormon Saints who witnessed the visit of the Savior Jesus Christ. Listen to this description of their witness: “And after this manner do they bear record: The eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father.”
Brothers and sisters, today I declare my witness and make a record of what I have both seen and heard during my sacred ministry as a Seventy of the Lord Jesus Christ. In doing so, I testify to you of a loving Heavenly Father and His benevolent Son, Jesus Christ, who suffered, died, and rose again to offer eternal life to God’s children. I testify of “a marvelous work and a wonder” and that the Lord has set His hand once again to restore His gospel on the earth through His living prophets and apostles. I testify that based upon what I have both seen and heard, there has never been a better time to be a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than today. I know this of my own knowledge, independent of any other source, because of what I have both seen and heard.
During my senior year of high school, to graduate from seminary I had to identify all 15 temples of the Church. A picture of each temple was at the front of our classroom, and I had to know where each was located. Now, years later, it would be an enormous challenge—with 335 operating or announced temples—to identify each one. I have personally seen many of these houses of the Lord and testify that the Lord is offering His blessings and ordinances to more and more of His children across the world.
My friends at FamilySearch have taught me that over one million new names are added to FamilySearch each day. If you didn’t find your ancestor yesterday, I invite you to look again tomorrow. When it comes to gathering Israel on the other side of the veil, there has never been a better time to be a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than today.
As we raised our children in Twin Falls, Idaho, our perspective of the worldwide Church was limited. When I was called to be a General Authority, Marcia and I were assigned to serve in the Pacific Area, a place we had never been. We were pleased to find stakes from the top of New Zealand to the bottom, with a temple that was dedicated in 1958. It was one of those 15 I had to memorize in seminary. We found temples in every major city of Australia, with stakes across that continent. We had assignments in Samoa, where there are 25 stakes, and Tonga, where almost half the population are members of the Church. We had an assignment on the island of Kiribati, where we found two stakes. We had assignments to visit stakes in Ebeye in the Marshall Islands and Daru in Papua New Guinea.
After our service in the Pacific Islands, we were assigned to serve in the Philippines. To my surprise, the Church of Jesus Christ in the Philippines is growing beyond anything I had realized. There are now 125 stakes, 23 missions, and 13 operating or announced temples. I witnessed a church of over 850,000 members in that country. How had I missed the establishment of Christ’s Church across the world?
After three years in the Philippines, I was asked to serve in the Missionary Department. My assignment took us to missions all over the world. My view of the Savior’s worldwide Church expanded exponentially. Marcia and I were assigned to visit missions in Asia. We found a beautiful stake center in Singapore, with amazing, faithful members. We visited members and missionaries in a chapel in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysia. We met missionaries in Hong Kong and participated in a wonderful stake conference with faithful, devoted Saints.
This experience was repeated as we met missionaries and members across Europe, in Latin America, in the Caribbean, and in Africa. The Church of Jesus Christ is experiencing tremendous growth in Africa.
I am an eyewitness to the ongoing Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the fulfilling of the prophecy of Joseph Smith that “the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly, and independent, till it has penetrated every continent, visited every clime, swept every country, and sounded in every ear.”
Our wonderful missionaries who now cover the globe are 74,000 strong. Working together with members, they baptize over 20,000 people every month. It has recently been 18-, 19-, and 20-year-old young men and young women who, with the help of the Lord, have produced this mighty miracle of gathering. We find these young women and young men in the small villages of Vanuatu and in the large cities of New York, Paris, and London. I have watched them teach about the Savior in remote congregations in Fiji and larger gatherings in places like Texas, California, and Florida in the United States.
You will find missionaries in every corner of the earth speaking 60 different languages and fulfilling the Savior’s great commission in Matthew 28: “Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.” I honor the past and current missionaries of the Church and remind our rising generation of President Russell M. Nelson’s invitation to come and gather Israel.
I testify today that I have observed this profound Restoration of the Savior’s gospel with my own eyes and heard it with my own ears. I am a witness of God’s work across the world. There has never been a better time to be a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than today.
Perhaps the most inspiring miracle of the Restoration that I have witnessed is you, the faithful members of the Church in every land. You, the Latter-day Saints, are described by Nephi in the Book of Mormon as he saw our day and testified, “And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the power of the Lamb of God, that it descended upon the saints of the church of the Lamb, and upon the covenant people of the Lord, who were scattered upon all the face of the earth; and they were armed with righteousness and with the power of God in great glory.”
I testify that I have seen with my own eyes what Nephi saw—you, the covenant Saints in every land, armed with righteousness and the power of God. As I was at the pulpit in one of these great nations of the world, the Lord impressed upon my mind something that King Benjamin taught in Mosiah 2 in the Book of Mormon. Brent, “I would desire that ye should consider on the blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments of God. For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual.”

I witness to you that I have seen this with my own eyes and heard it with my own ears as I have met you, faithful Saints of God across the earth who keep the commandments. You are the covenant children of the Father. You are disciples of Jesus Christ. You also know what I know because you have received your personal witness of the truthfulness of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. The Savior taught, “But blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they hear.”
Under the direction of the Lord and the leadership of His prophets and apostles, we will continue to prepare missionaries, make and keep sacred covenants, establish Christ’s Church across the world, and receive the blessings that come as we keep the commandments of God. We are united. We are God’s children. We know Him and we love Him.
I join all of you, my friends, as we unitedly testify that these things are true. We make a record of what we have both seen and heard. You and I are witnesses who testify. It is with the power of this united witness that we continue to move forward with faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and His gospel. I declare my witness that Jesus Christ lives. He is our Savior and our Redeemer. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Mormon 1:1.


See Acts 3:6.


Acts 4:19–20.


3 Nephi 17:16.


2 Nephi 27:26; see also Isaiah 29:14.


See 2 Nephi 29:1.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2007), 444.


Matthew 28:19.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel” (worldwide youth devotional, June 3, 2018), Gospel Library; Russell M. Nelson, “Preaching the Gospel of Peace,” Liahona, May 2022, 6–7.


1 Nephi 14:14.


Mosiah 2:41.


Matthew 13:16.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Jesus Christ at the Center of Our Lives","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Jesus Christ at the Center of Our Lives

By Elder Jose L. Alonso
Of the Seventy

The profound questions of the soul, those that surface in our darkest hours and highest trials, are addressed through the unwavering love of Jesus Christ.


As we journey through mortality, we are at times beset by trials: the severe pain of the loss of loved ones, the arduous fight against illness, the sting of injustice, the harrowing experiences of harassment or abuse, the shadow of unemployment, familial tribulations, the silent cry of loneliness, or the heartrending consequences of armed conflicts. In such moments, our souls yearn for refuge. We seek earnestly to know: Where may we find the balm of peace? In whom can we place our trust to help us with the confidence and strength to surmount these challenges? Who possesses the patience, the encompassing love, and the omnipotent hand to uplift and sustain us?
The profound questions of the soul, those that surface in our darkest hours and highest trials, are addressed through the unwavering love of Jesus Christ. In Him, and through the promised blessings of His restored gospel, we find the answers we seek. It is through His infinite Atonement that we are offered a gift beyond measure—one of hope, healing, and the assurance of His constant, enduring presence in our lives. This gift is available to all who reach out with faith, embracing the peace and redemption He so freely offers.
The Lord extends His hand to each of us, a gesture that is the very essence of His divine love and kindness. His invitation to us transcends a simple call; it is a divine pledge, reinforced by the enduring power of His grace. In the scriptures, He lovingly assures us:
“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.
“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”
The clarity of His invitation “come unto me” and “take my yoke” affirms the profound nature of His promise—a promise so vast and complete that it embodies His love, offering us a solemn guarantee: “Ye shall find rest.”
As we diligently seek spiritual guidance, we embark on a deeply transformative odyssey that strengthens our testimonies. As we comprehend the vastness of our Heavenly Father’s and Jesus Christ’s perfect love, our hearts are filled with gratitude, humility, and a renewed desire to pursue the path of discipleship.
President Russell M. Nelson taught that “when the focus of our lives is on God’s plan of salvation … and Jesus Christ and His gospel, we can feel joy regardless of what is happening—or not happening—in our lives. Joy comes from and because of Him.”
Alma, speaking to his son Helaman, declared: “And now, O my son Helaman, behold, thou art in thy youth, and therefore, I beseech of thee that thou wilt hear my words and learn of me; for I do know that whosoever shall put their trust in God shall be supported in their trials, and their troubles, and their afflictions, and shall be lifted up at the last day.”
Helaman, speaking to his sons, taught about this eternal principle of putting the Savior at the center of our lives: “Remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation.”
In Matthew 14 we learn that after hearing of John the Baptist’s death, Jesus sought solitude. However, a large crowd followed Him. Moved by compassion and love, and not allowing His grief to distract Him from His mission, Jesus welcomed them, healing the sick among them. As evening approached, the disciples faced a daunting challenge: a multitude of people with scant food available. They proposed that Jesus send the crowd away to procure food, but Jesus, with high love and high expectations, asked the disciples to feed them instead.
While the disciples were preoccupied with the immediate challenge, Jesus demonstrated His trust in and love for His Father, coupled with an unwavering love for the people. He directed the crowd to sit on the grass, and taking only five loaves and two fish, He chose to give thanks to His Father, acknowledging God’s provision over His authority and power.
After He gave thanks, Jesus broke the bread, and the disciples distributed it to the people. Miraculously, the food not only sufficed but was abundant, with 12 baskets of leftovers. The group fed included five thousand men, along with women and children.
This miracle teaches a profound lesson: when confronted with challenges, it’s easy to become engrossed in our difficulties. However, Jesus Christ exemplified the power of focusing on His Father, offering gratitude, and acknowledging that solutions to our trials do not always lie within ourselves but with God.
When we encounter difficulties, we naturally tend to concentrate on the obstacles we face. Our challenges are tangible and command our attention, yet the principle of surmounting them is in our focus. By placing Christ at the core of our thoughts and deeds, we align ourselves with His outlook and strength. This adjustment does not discount our struggles; instead, it helps us to navigate through them under divine guidance. As a result, we discover solutions and support that arise from a higher wisdom. Adopting this Christ-centric perspective empowers us with the fortitude and insight to turn our trials into victories, reminding us that with the Savior, what seems like a major problem can become a pathway to greater spiritual progress.
The story of Alma the Younger in the Book of Mormon presents a compelling narrative of redemption and the profound impact of centering one’s life around Christ. At first, Alma stood as an opponent of the Lord’s Church, leading many astray from the path of righteousness. However, a divine intervention, marked by an angelic visitation, awakened him from his wrongdoings.
In his darkest hour, tormented by guilt and desperate to find a way out of his spiritual anguish, Alma remembered his father’s teachings about Jesus Christ and the power of His Atonement. With a heart yearning for redemption, he earnestly repented and pleaded fervently for the Lord’s mercy. This crucial moment of complete surrender, bringing Christ to the forefront of his thoughts as Alma earnestly sought His mercy, triggered a remarkable transformation. The heavy chains of guilt and despair vanished and were replaced by an overwhelming sense of joy and peace.
Jesus Christ is our hope and the answer to life’s greatest pains. Through His sacrifice, He paid for our sins and took upon Himself all of our suffering—pain, injustice, sorrow, and fear—and He forgives and heals us when we trust in Him and seek to change our lives for the better. He is our Healer, comforting and repairing our hearts through His love and power, just like He healed many during His time on earth. He is the living water, fulfilling the deepest needs of our souls with His constant love and kindness. This is like the promise He made to the Samaritan woman at the well, offering “a well of water springing up into everlasting life.”
I bear solemn witness that Jesus Christ lives, that He presides over this, His sacred Church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I testify that He is the Savior of the world, the Prince of Peace, the King of kings, the Lord of lords, the Redeemer of the world. I affirm with certainty that we are ever present in His mind and heart. As a testament to this, He has restored His Church in these latter days and has called President Russell M. Nelson as His prophet and the President of the Church at this time. I know that Jesus Christ gave His life so that we might have eternal life.
As we strive to place Him at the center of our lives, revelations unfold to us, His profound peace envelops us, and His infinite Atonement brings about our forgiveness and healing. It is in Him that we discover the strength to overcome, the courage to persevere, and the peace that surpasses all understanding. May we strive each day to draw nearer to Him, the source of all that is good, the beacon of hope in our journey back to the presence of our Heavenly Father. In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Psalm 23:4; 2 Corinthians 1:3–4.


See Psalm 46:1.


See Jeremiah 8:22.


See Isaiah 41:10; Ether 12:27.


See John 3:16; Romans 8:38–39.


See Acts 3:20–21; 3 Nephi 20:29–31.


See Isaiah 53:5; Alma 34:10–14.


Matthew 11:28–30.


See Proverbs 3:5–6; James 1:5.


See Romans 8:39; 1 John 4:16.


See 1 Thessalonians 5:18; Mosiah 4:11.


See Matthew 16:24; 2 Nephi 31:19–20.


Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 82.


Alma 36:3.


Helaman 5:12.


See Matthew 14:13–21.


See Proverbs 3:5–6; Philippians 4:6–7.


See 2 Corinthians 12:9–10.


See Psalm 32:8; Ether 12:27.


See Romans 8:28; 1 Nephi 3:7.


See Alma 36:5–20.


See Psalm 147:3; 1 Peter 2:24.


See Isaiah 53:4–5.


John 4:14; see also Isaiah 12:3.


See Matthew 16:18; Ephesians 1:22–23.


See Isaiah 9:6.


See 1 Timothy 6:15.


See Amos 3:7; Doctrine and Covenants 1:38.


See John 3:16; Alma 34:14.


See Deuteronomy 31:6; Philippians 4:13; Moroni 10:32.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"All Things for Our Good","year":"2024","month":"04"}



All Things for Our Good

By Elder Gerrit W. Gong
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

In time and eternity, the purpose of Creation and the nature of God Himself are to bring all things together for our good.


Today is April 6, the anniversary of Jesus Christ restoring His latter-day Church—and part of the Easter season, when we joyfully testify of Jesus Christ’s perfect life, atoning sacrifice, and glorious Resurrection.
A Chinese story begins as a man’s son finds a beautiful horse.
“How fortunate,” the neighbors say.
“We’ll see,” says the man.
Then the son falls off the horse and is permanently injured.
“How unfortunate,” the neighbors say.
“We’ll see,” says the man.
A conscripting army comes but doesn’t take the injured son.
“How fortunate,” the neighbors say.
“We’ll see,” says the man.
This fickle world often feels tempest tossed, uncertain, sometimes fortunate, and—too often—unfortunate. Yet, in this world of tribulation, “we know that all things work together for good to them that love God.” Indeed, as we walk uprightly and remember our covenants, “all things shall work together for your good.”
All things for our good.
A remarkable promise! Comforting assurance from God Himself! In a miraculous way, the purpose of Creation and the nature of God are to know beginning and end, to bring about all that is for our good, and to help us become sanctified and holy through Jesus Christ’s grace and Atonement.
Jesus Christ’s Atonement can deliver and redeem us from sin. But Jesus Christ also intimately understands our every pain, affliction, sickness, sorrow, separation. In time and eternity, His triumph over death and hell can make all things right. He helps heal the broken and disparaged, reconcile the angry and divided, comfort the lonely and isolated, encourage the uncertain and imperfect, and bring forth miracles possible only with God.
We sing hallelujah and shout hosanna! With eternal power and infinite goodness, in God’s plan of happiness all things can work together for our good. We can face life with confidence and not fear.
Left on our own, we may not know our own good. When “I choose me,” I am also choosing my own limitations, weaknesses, inadequacies. Ultimately, to do the most good, we must be good. Since none save God is good, we seek perfection in Jesus Christ. We become our truest, best selves only as we put off the natural man or woman and become a child before God.
With our trust and faith in God, trials and afflictions can be consecrated for our good. Joseph, sold into slavery in Egypt, later saved his family and people. The Prophet Joseph Smith’s incarceration in Liberty Jail taught him “these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good.” Lived with faith, trials and sacrifices we would never choose can bless us and others in ways never imagined.
We increase faith and trust in the Lord that all things can work together for our good as we gain eternal perspective; understand our trials may be “but for a small moment”; recognize affliction can be consecrated for our gain; acknowledge accidents, untimely death, debilitating illness, and disease are part of mortality; and trust loving Heavenly Father does not give trials to punish or judge. He would not give a stone to someone asking for bread nor a serpent to one asking for a fish.
When trials come, often what we most want is for someone to listen and be with us. In the moment, cliché answers can be unhelpful, however comforting their intent. Sometimes we yearn for someone who will grieve, ache, and weep with us; let us express pain, frustration, sometimes even anger; and acknowledge with us there are things we do not know.
When we trust God and His love for us, even our greatest heartbreaks can, in the end, work together for our good.
I remember the day I received word of a serious car accident which involved those I love. At such times, in anguish and faith, we can only say with Job, “The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord.”
Across the worldwide Church, some 3,500 stakes and districts and some 30,000 wards and branches provide refuge and safety. But within our stakes and wards, many faithful families and individuals confront difficult challenges, even while knowing that (without yet knowing how) things will work together for our good.
In Huddersfield, England, Brother Samuel Bridgstock was diagnosed with stage-four cancer shortly before the calling of a new stake president. Given his dire diagnosis, he asked his wife, Anna, why he would even go to be interviewed.
“Because,” Sister Bridgstock said, “you’re going to be called as stake president.”

Initially given a year or two to live, President Bridgstock (who is here today) is now in his fourth year of service. He has good and hard days. His stake is rallying with increased faith, service, and kindness. It is not easy, but his wife and family live with faith, gratitude, and understandable sadness they trust will become eternal joy through Jesus Christ’s restoring Atonement.
When we are still, open, and reverent, we may feel the beauty, purpose, and serenity of the covenant belonging the Lord offers. In sacred moments, He may let us glimpse the larger eternal reality of which our daily lives are part, where small and simple things work together for the good of givers and receivers.
Rebekah, the daughter of my first mission president, shared how the Lord answered her prayer for comfort with an unexpected opportunity to answer someone else’s prayer.

Late one evening, Rebekah, grieving her mother’s recent passing, had a clear impression to go buy gas for her car. When she arrived at the station, she met an elderly woman struggling to breathe with a large oxygen tank. Later, Rebekah was able to give the woman her mother’s portable oxygen machine. This sister gratefully said, “You’ve given me back my freedom.” Things work together for good when we minister as Jesus Christ would.
A father assigned with his teacher-age son as ministering companions explained, “Ministering is when we go from being neighbors who bring cookies to trusted friends, spiritual first responders.” Covenant belonging in Jesus Christ comforts, connects, consecrates.
Even in tragedy, spiritual preparation may remind us Heavenly Father knew when we felt most vulnerable and alone. For example, a family whose child was taken to the hospital later found comfort in remembering the Holy Ghost had whispered in advance what to expect.
Sometimes the larger eternal reality the Lord lets us feel includes family across the veil. A sister found joy in conversion to Jesus Christ’s restored gospel. Yet two traumas had deeply impacted her life—seeing a boating accident and tragically losing her mother, who had taken her own life.

Yet this sister overcame her fear of water enough to be baptized by immersion. And on what became a very happy day, she witnessed someone, acting as proxy for her deceased mother, be baptized in the temple. “Temple baptism healed my mother, and it freed me,” the sister said. “It was the first time I felt peace since my mother died.”
Our sacred music echoes His assurance that all things can work together for our good.


Be still, my soul: Thy God doth undertake
To guide the future as he has the past.
Thy hope, thy confidence let nothing shake;
All now mysterious shall be bright at last.




Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear;
But with joy wend your way.
Though hard to you this journey may appear,
Grace shall be as your day. …
And should we die before our journey’s through,
Happy day! All is well!


The Book of Mormon is evidence we can hold in our hand that Jesus is the Christ and God fulfills His prophecies. Written by inspired prophets who saw our day, the Book of Mormon begins with raw drama—a family dealing with deep differences. Yet, as we study and ponder 1 Nephi 1 through to Moroni 10, we are drawn to Jesus Christ with a firm testimony that what happened there and then can bless us here and now.
As the Lord, through His living prophet, brings more houses of the Lord closer in more places, temple blessings work together for our good. We come by covenant and ordinance to God our Father and Jesus Christ and gain eternal perspective on mortality. One by one, name by name, we offer beloved family members—ancestors—sacred ordinances and covenant blessings in the Lord’s pattern of saviors on Mount Zion.
As temples come closer to us in many places, a temple sacrifice we can offer is to seek holiness in the house of the Lord more frequently. For many years, we have saved, planned, and sacrificed to come to the temple. Now, as circumstances permit, please come even more often to the Lord in His holy house. Let regular temple worship and service bless, protect, and inspire you and your family—the family you have or the family you will have and become someday.

Also, where your circumstances permit, please consider the blessing of owning your own temple clothes. A grandmother from a humble family said of anything in the world, what she most wanted were her own temple clothes. Her grandson said, “Grandma whispered, ‘I will serve in my own temple clothes, and after I die, I will be buried in them.’” And when the time came, she was.
As President Russell M. Nelson teaches, “Everything we believe and every promise God has made to His covenant people come together in the temple.”
In time and eternity, the purpose of Creation and the nature of God Himself are to bring all things together for our good.
This is the Lord’s eternal purpose. It is His eternal perspective. It is His eternal promise.
When life is cluttered and purpose isn’t clear, when you want to live better but don’t know how, please come to God our Father and Jesus Christ. Trust They live, love you, and want all things for your good. I testify They do, infinitely and eternally, in the sacred and holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See John 16:33.


Romans 8:28.


Doctrine and Covenants 90:24. The popular phrase “It’s all good” often implies things are OK and in order, without necessarily meaning they are actually for our good.


See Moses 1:3.


See Alma 7:11.


See 2 Nephi 9:10–12. God respects moral agency, sometimes allowing even the unrighteous acts of others to affect us. But as we willingly seek to do all we can, Jesus Christ’s grace and His enabling and atoning power can cleanse, heal, bind up, reconcile us with ourselves and each other, on both sides of the veil.


See Moroni 7:6, 10–12. Professor Terry Warner writes perceptively on this topic.


See Romans 3:10; Moroni 10:25.


See Moroni 10:32.


See Doctrine and Covenants 122:4, 7.


We learn by experiences we would never choose. Sometimes bearing burdens with the Lord’s help can increase our capacity to bear those burdens; Mosiah 24:10–15 illustrates the Lord’s promise to “visit my people in their afflictions” and to “strengthen them that they could bear up their burdens.” Alma 33:23 teaches that our “burdens may be light, through the joy of his Son.” Mosiah 18:8 reminds us that when we are “willing to bear one another’s burdens … they may be light.”


The prophet Isaiah speaks of the Messiah: “The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me; because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, … to comfort all that mourn; to appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness” (Isaiah 61:1–3). Likewise, the psalmist offers the Lord’s promised perspective: “Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning” (Psalm 30:5). This includes the glorious promises for the righteous on the morning of the First Resurrection.


Doctrine and Covenants 122:4. Believing trials may be for what is in eternity a “small moment” does not mean to downplay or make less trying or challenging the agonizing pain or suffering we may experience day after day in this life, the unbearable sleepless nights, or the excruciating uncertainties of each new day. Perhaps the promise of being able to look back and see our mortal suffering in light of God’s compassion and eternal view adds some perspective to our understanding of mortality and our hope to endure with faith and trust in Him to the end. Also, when we have eyes to see, there is often good in the now; we need not necessarily wait for a future time to see good.


See 2 Nephi 2:2.


See Matthew 7:9–10. Letting God prevail in our lives is not passively to accept whatever comes. It is actively to believe that Heavenly Father and our Savior, Jesus Christ, want only and always what is best for us. When tragedy strikes, we can ask with faith, not “Why me?” but “What can I learn?” And we can mourn with broken hearts and contrite spirits, knowing, in His time and way, compensating blessings and opportunities will come.


We have covenanted to mourn with those who mourn and comfort those who stand in need of comfort (see Mosiah 18:9).


Job 1:21.


See Doctrine and Covenants 115:6.


Faith in the face of difficulty is the opposite of the existential anguish and despair the Book of Mormon describes of those who “curse God, and wish to die” but who “nevertheless … would struggle with the sword for their lives” (Mormon 2:14).


“Be Still, My Soul,” Hymns, no. 124.


“Come, Come, Ye Saints,” Hymns, no. 30. Consider also:


How great the wisdom and the love. …
Redemption’s grand design,
Where justice, love, and mercy meet
In harmony divine!
(“How Great the Wisdom and the Love,” Hymns, no. 195.)


Amid life’s uncertainties, we know redemption’s grand design will bring justice, love, and mercy together for our good.


See Obadiah 1:21. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught: “How are they [the Latter-day Saints] to become saviors on Mount Zion? By building their temples, erecting their baptismal fonts, and going forth and receiving all the ordinances … in behalf of all their progenitors who are dead” (Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith [2007], 473).


Members attending the temple for the first time can purchase temple clothes at a significant discount.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 94.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"In Support of the Rising Generation","year":"2024","month":"04"}



In Support of the Rising Generation

By Brother Michael T. Nelson
Second Counselor in the Young Men General Presidency

It is relationships in the lives of the youth that have the greatest influence on their choices.


In preparing to speak to you, I have been drawn to the story of Helaman and the stripling sons of the people of Ammon. I have felt the power of Book of Mormon prophets teaching parents, bishops, and ward members through studying this account.
Helaman was a man that the young Ammonites could trust. He helped them develop and mature in righteousness. They knew and loved him and “would that [he] should be their leader.”
Helaman loved these young men like sons and saw their potential. Elder Dale G. Renlund taught that “to effectively serve others we must see them … through Heavenly Father’s eyes. Only then can we begin to comprehend the true worth of a soul. Only then can we sense the love that Heavenly Father has for all … His children.” Bishops today are blessed with discernment to see the divine identity of the youth in their care.
Helaman “numbered” the young men in his care. He prioritized building strong relationships with them.
At a critical time when life and death hung in the balance, Helaman and his young warriors lost track of the army pursuing them. Helaman counseled with the youth:
“Behold, we know not but they have halted for the purpose that we should come against them. …
“Therefore what say ye, my sons … ?”
These faithful young men responded, “Father, behold our God is with us, and he will not suffer that we should fall; then let us go forth.” The day was won, as Helaman supported these young men in their resolve to act.
The young Ammonites had a great cause and were valiant in “the support of the people.” “This little force,” led by Helaman, spread “great hopes and much joy” into the hearts of the experienced Nephite armies. Bishops today can lead their uniquely gifted youth in blessing the ward and gathering Israel. President Russell M. Nelson has taught that this is the mission “for which [they] were sent to earth.”
Like these young Ammonites who were “true at all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted,” Helaman faithfully followed his leaders. No matter the challenge or setback, Helaman always remained “fixed with a determination” to advance their purpose. When he was directed to “march forth with [his] little sons,” he obeyed.

The youth today are blessed as bishops follow the guidance of our leaders to “counsel with the ward Young Women president[s].” Stake presidents ensure that bishops and Young Women presidents are instructed in fulfilling their responsibilities for the youth.
Helaman honored covenants. When Ammon taught the gospel to the parents of the stripling young men, these parents embraced it with open hearts. They were so committed to their new life of righteous discipleship that they made a covenant to “lay down the weapons of their rebellion.” The only thing that caused them to consider breaking this covenant, going back to their familiar past of fighting, was seeing the Nephites in danger.
The Ammonites wanted to help these people who had offered them a safe home. Helaman, along with others, persuaded them to keep their covenant never to fight. He trusted more in the strength that God would provide than in the strength these Ammonites could have provided with their swords and arrows.
When Helaman and his young warriors faced daunting challenges, Helaman was resolute. “Behold, it mattereth not—we trust God will deliver us.” In one instance, when they were on the verge of starving to death, their response was to “pour out [their] souls in prayer to God, that he would strengthen [them] and deliver [them]; … [and] the Lord … did visit [them] with assurances that he would deliver [them]” “because of their exceeding faith in that which they had been taught to believe.”
We learn from Helaman that these young men were supported by their parents. These faithful parents knew they had the primary responsibility for teaching their children. They taught their children to keep the commandments and “walk uprightly” before God. Their mothers taught them “that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them.” Their fathers set a powerful example of covenant making. These former warriors knew the horrors of battle. They entrusted their inexperienced sons to Helaman’s care and supported them by sending “many provisions.”
Helaman wasn’t alone as he served his young army. He had people around him whom he turned to for support and guidance. He reached out to Captain Moroni for help, and it came.
No one serving in the Lord’s kingdom serves alone. The Lord has blessed us with wards and stakes. Through His restored organization, we have the resources, wisdom, and inspiration to meet any challenge.
A bishop provides guidance for the ward through councils. He promotes quarterly ministering interviews and then encourages the elders quorum and Relief Society to fulfill their responsibility of ministering to families. These presidencies take the lead in assessing needs and finding inspired solutions. Stake presidents offer support by instructing the elders quorum and Relief Society presidencies in these responsibilities.
The needed guidance for leaders and parents is found in the Gospel Library and the Gospel Living apps. In these inspired resources, we can find the scriptures, teachings of modern prophets, and the General Handbook. The Youth tab in the Gospel Library has many resources for quorum and class presidencies and has For the Strength of Youth: A Guide for Making Choices. As all members of the ward study these inspired sources and seek guidance from the Spirit, everyone will be directed by the Lord in strengthening the youth.
The entire ward will be blessed and strengthened as members focus on the rising generation. Despite our imperfections and shortcomings, Heavenly Father invites each of us, through the companionship of His Spirit, to reach out to others. He knows that we grow and are sanctified as we follow the promptings of the Holy Ghost. It doesn’t matter that our efforts are imperfect. When we partner with the Lord, we can trust that our efforts will be in line with what He would do for the youth.
By following the direction of the Holy Ghost in reaching out to the youth, we become witnesses of Heavenly Father’s love in their lives. Acting on promptings from the Lord builds relationships of love and trust. It is relationships in the lives of the youth that have the greatest influence on their choices.
The youth will learn the pattern of revelation as they participate with us in the process of seeking and acting upon promptings to serve others. As the youth turn to the Lord for this inspired guidance, their relationships with and trust in Him will deepen.
We express our confidence in the youth by offering support and direction without taking over. As we step back and allow the youth to learn through counseling together, choosing an inspired course, and putting their plan into action, they will experience true joy and growth.
President Henry B. Eyring taught that “what will matter most is what they learn from [you] about who they really are and what they can really become. My guess is that they won’t learn it so much from lectures. They will get it from feelings of who you are, who you think they are, and what you think they might become.”
Our youth amaze us with their courage, their faith, and their abilities. As they choose to be fully engaged disciples of Jesus Christ, His gospel will be etched upon their hearts. Following Him will become a part of who they are, not just what they do.
Helaman helped the young Ammonites to see how a valiant disciple of Jesus Christ lives. We can be powerful examples to the youth of how disciples of Christ live today. Faithful parents are praying for these examples in the lives of their children. No program can replace the influence of loving, covenant-keeping adults.
As the president of the priests quorum, the bishop can set an example for the youth of how to be a loyal husband and a loving father through protecting, providing, and presiding in righteous ways. Bishops, with a “laser-like focus on [the] youth,” will have an influence that will last for generations.
The youth today are among Heavenly Father’s most noble spirits. They were among the stalwart defenders of truth and agency in the premortal world. They were born in these days to gather Israel through their powerful witness of the Lord Jesus Christ. He knows each one of them and knows their great potential. He is patient as they grow. He will redeem and protect them. He will heal and guide them. He will inspire them. We, their parents and leaders, have been prepared to support them. We have the Savior’s Church to assist us as we raise the next generation.
I bear witness that Christ’s Church, restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith and led today by President Russell M. Nelson, is organized to help the youth fulfill their great purpose in these latter days. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Alma 53:19.


“If you choose to, if you want to, … you can be a big part of something big, something grand, something majestic! … You are among the best the Lord has ever sent to this world. You have the capacity to be smarter and wiser and have more impact on the world than any previous generation!” (Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel” [worldwide youth devotional, June 3, 2018], Gospel Library).


Dale G. Renlund, “Through God’s Eyes,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2015, 94.


Alma 56:55.


Alma 56:43–44.


Alma 56:46.


“Our Heavenly Father’s goal in parenting is not to have His children do what is right; it is to have His children choose to do what is right” (Dale G. Renlund, “Choose You This Day,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 104).


“As we empower the youth by inviting and allowing them to act, the Church will move forward in miraculous ways” (from a meeting with Elder David A. Bednar; see also 2020 Temple and Family History Leadership Instruction, Feb. 27, 2020, Gospel Library).


Alma 53:22.


Alma 56:17.


Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel,” Gospel Library.


Alma 53:20.


Alma 58:12.


Alma 56:30.


General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 7.1.2, Gospel Library.


See General Handbook, 6.7.2.


Alma 23:7.


Alma 58:37.


Alma 58:10–11.


Alma 57:26.


Alma 53:21.


Alma 56:47.


See Alma 23:7; 24:17–19.


Alma 56:27.


See General Handbook, 7.1.1.


“As we seek eternal truth, the following two questions can help us recognize whether a concept comes from God or from another source: Is the concept taught consistently in the scriptures and by living prophets? Is the concept confirmed by the witness of the Holy Ghost? God reveals doctrinal truths through prophets, and the Holy Ghost confirms those truths to us and helps us apply them” (John C. Pingree Jr., “Eternal Truth,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 100).


See Doctrine and Covenants 4:2–4.


“If [our] youth are too underwhelmed [by God’s work], they are more likely to be overwhelmed by the world. … How many deacons and teachers quorum presidencies consist of merely calling on someone to offer a prayer or pass the sacrament? Brethren, these really are special spirits, and they can do things of significance if given a chance!” (Neal A. Maxwell, “Unto the Rising Generation,” Ensign, Apr. 1985, 11).


Henry B. Eyring, “Teaching Is a Moral Act” (address given at the Brigham Young University annual conference, Aug. 27, 1991), 3, speeches.byu.edu.


See “Aaronic Priesthood Quorum Theme,” Gospel Library.


See “The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library.


“It is our hope that bishoprics will give great emphasis and focus to the priesthood responsibilities of young men and help them in their quorum duties. Capable adult Young Men advisers will be called to assist the Aaronic Priesthood quorum presidencies and the bishopric in their duties. We are confident that more young men and young women will rise to the challenge and stay on the covenant path because of this laser-like focus on our youth” (Quentin L. Cook, “Adjustments to Strengthen Youth,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 41).


“Our Heavenly Father has reserved many of His most noble spirits—perhaps, I might say, His finest team—for this final phase. Those noble spirits—those finest players, those heroes—are you!” (Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel,” Gospel Library).


“The teenager you love may well have been one of the valiant warriors on the side of agency and truth. … We can help in the way we react to their determination to choose for themselves. They will sense whether we see them as if they could well have been one of the faithful warriors from the premortal existence, committed still to the defense of moral agency and aware of its great value to bring them happiness. If we can see them as faithful warriors from the premortal existence, we may also see their claims of independence as a sign of their potential, a sign that they are testing the power of agency that will bring them happiness” (Henry B. Eyring, “A Life Founded in Light and Truth” [Brigham Young University devotional, Aug. 15, 2000], 3, 4, speeches.byu.edu).



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Be One with Christ","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Be One with Christ

By Elder Quentin L. Cook
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

We are united by our love of and faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement. The essence of truly belonging is to be one with Christ.


I have felt deeply about the Atonement of Jesus Christ since I was quite young, but the reality of the Savior’s Atonement came home to me when I was 25. I had just graduated from Stanford Law School and was studying for the California bar exam. My mother called and said that my grandfather Crozier Kimball, who lived in Utah, was dying. She said if I wanted to see him, I had better come home. My grandfather was 86 and very ill. I had a wonderful visit. He was so pleased to see me and share his testimony with me.
When Crozier was just three years old, his father, David Patten Kimball, died at age 44. Crozier hoped that his father and his grandfather Heber C. Kimball would approve of his life and feel he had been true to his heritage.
My grandfather’s primary counsel to me was to avoid any sense of entitlement or privilege because of these faithful ancestors. He told me my focus should be on the Savior and the Savior’s Atonement. He said we are all children of a loving Heavenly Father. Regardless of who our earthly ancestors are, each of us will report to the Savior on how well we kept His commandments.
Grandpa referred to the Savior as the “Keeper of the Gate,” a reference to 2 Nephi 9:41. He told me he hoped he had been sufficiently repentant to qualify for the Savior’s mercy.
I was deeply touched. I knew he had been a righteous man. He was a patriarch and served several missions. He taught me that no one can return to God by good works alone without the benefit of the Savior’s Atonement. I can remember to this day the great love and appreciation Grandpa had for the Savior and His Atonement.
In 2019 during an assignment in Jerusalem, I visited an upper room which may have been near the site where the Savior washed His Apostles’ feet prior to His Crucifixion. I was spiritually touched and thought of how He commanded His Apostles to love one another.
I recalled the Savior’s pleading Intercessory Prayer in our behalf. This prayer occurred in literally the closing hours of His mortal life as recorded in the Gospel of John.
This prayer was directed to followers of Christ, including all of us. In the Savior’s petition to His Father, He pleaded “that they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us.” The Savior then continues, “And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them; that they may be one, even as we are one.” Oneness is what Christ prayed for prior to His betrayal and Crucifixion. Oneness with Christ and our Heavenly Father can be obtained through the Savior’s Atonement.
The Lord’s saving mercy is not dependent on lineage, education, economic status, or race. It is based on being one with Christ and His commandments.
The Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received the revelation on Church organization and government in 1830, soon after the Church was organized. What is now section 20 was read by the Prophet Joseph at the first Church conference and was the first revelation approved by common consent.
The content of this revelation is truly remarkable. It teaches us the significance and role of the Savior and how to access His power and blessings through His atoning grace. The Prophet Joseph was 24 years old and had already received numerous revelations and completed the translation of the Book of Mormon by the gift and power of God. Both Joseph and Oliver are identified as ordained Apostles, thus having authority to preside over the Church.
Verses 17 through 36 contain a summary of essential Church doctrine, including the reality of God, the Creation of mankind, the Fall, and Heavenly Father’s plan of salvation through the Atonement of Jesus Christ. Verse 37 contains the essential requirements for baptism into the Lord’s Church. Verses 75 through 79 set forth the sacrament prayers we utilize every Sabbath.
The doctrine, principles, sacraments, and practices that the Lord established through Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the Restoration, are truly seminal.
The requirements for baptism, while profound, are uniquely simple. They primarily include humility before God, a broken heart and contrite spirit, repenting of all sins, taking upon us the name of Jesus Christ, enduring to the end, and showing by our works that we have received of the Spirit of Christ.
It is significant that all the qualifications for baptism are spiritual. No economic or social attainment is necessary. The poor and the rich have the same spiritual requirements.
There are no race, gender, or ethnicity requirements. The Book of Mormon makes it clear that all are invited to partake of the Lord’s goodness, “black and white, bond and free, male and female; … all are alike unto God.” “All men are privileged the one like unto the other, and none are forbidden.”
Given our “likeness” before God, it makes little sense to emphasize our differences. Some have wrongly encouraged us “to imagine people to be much more different from ourselves and from each other than they actually are. [Some] take real but small differences and magnify them into chasms.”
In addition, some have wrongly assumed that because all people are invited to receive His goodness and eternal life, there are no conduct requirements.
However, the scriptures attest that all accountable persons are required to repent of sins and keep His commandments. The Lord makes it clear that all have moral agency and “are free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great Mediator of all men, … and hearken unto his great commandments; and be faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life.” To receive the blessings of the Savior’s Atonement, we must affirmatively exercise our moral agency to choose Christ and obey His commandments.
During my life, the meaning of “agency” and “free will” has been dissected and debated. There have been and continue to be many intellectual arguments on these topics.
On the recent cover of a major university alumni publication, a prominent biologist-professor asserts, “There’s no room for free will.” Not surprisingly, the professor is quoted in the article as saying, “There’s no such thing as God, … and there’s no free will, … and this is a vast, indifferent, empty universe.” I could not disagree more strongly.
A fundamental doctrine of our faith is that we do have moral agency, which includes free will. Agency is the ability to choose and act. It is essential to the plan of salvation. Without moral agency, we could not learn, progress, or choose to be one with Christ. Because of moral agency, we “are free to choose liberty and eternal life.” In the premortal Council in Heaven, the Father’s plan included agency as an essential element. Lucifer rebelled and “sought to destroy the agency of man.” Accordingly, the privilege of having a mortal body was denied to Satan and those who followed him.
Other premortal spirits exercised their agency in following Heavenly Father’s plan. Spirits blessed by birth to this mortal life continue to have agency. We are free to choose and act, but we do not control the consequences. “Choices of good and righteousness lead to happiness, peace, and eternal life, while choices of sin and evil eventually lead to heartache and misery.” As Alma said, “Wickedness never was happiness.”
In this extremely competitive world, there is a constant effort to excel. Striving to be the best we can be is a righteous and worthwhile endeavor. It is consistent with the Lord’s doctrine. Efforts to diminish or deprecate others or create barriers to their success are contrary to the Lord’s doctrine. We cannot blame circumstances or others for a decision to act contrary to God’s commandments.
In today’s world, it is easy to focus on material and occupational success. Some lose sight of eternal principles and choices that have eternal significance. We would be wise to follow President Russell M. Nelson’s counsel to “think celestial.”
The most significant choices can be made by almost everyone regardless of talents, abilities, opportunities, or economic circumstances. An emphasis on putting family choices first is essential. This is clear throughout the scriptures. Think of the account in 1 Nephi where Lehi “departed into the wilderness. And he left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and his gold, and his silver, and his precious things, and took nothing with him, save it were his family.”
As we face the vicissitudes of life, many events occur over which we have little or no control. Health challenges and accidents obviously can fit into this category. The recent COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted people who did everything right. For the most important choices, we do have control. Going back to my missionary days, Elder Marion D. Hanks, our mission president, had all of us memorize part of a poem by Ella Wheeler Wilcox:


There is no chance, no destiny, no fate,
Can circumvent or hinder or control
The firm resolve of a determined soul.


On matters of principle, conduct, religious observance, and righteous living, we are in control. Our faith in and worship of God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, is a choice that we make.
Please understand I am not advocating less interest in education or occupation. What I am saying is that when efforts relating to education and occupation are elevated above the family or being one with Christ, the unintended consequences can be significantly adverse.
The clear and simple doctrine set forth in Doctrine and Covenants 20 is touching and compelling as it amplifies and clarifies sacred spiritual concepts. It teaches that salvation comes as Jesus Christ justifies and sanctifies repentant souls because of the Savior’s grace. It sets the stage for the preeminent role of His Atonement.
We should strive to include others in our circle of oneness. If we are to follow President Russell M. Nelson’s admonition to gather scattered Israel on both sides of the veil, we need to include others in our circle of oneness. As President Nelson has so beautifully taught: “On every continent and across the isles of the sea, faithful people are being gathered into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Differences in culture, language, gender, race, and nationality fade into insignificance as the faithful enter the covenant path and come unto our beloved Redeemer.”
We are united by our love of and faith in Jesus Christ and as children of a loving Heavenly Father. The essence of truly belonging is to be one with Christ. The ordinances of baptism and the sacrament set forth in Doctrine and Covenants 20, together with our temple covenants, unite us in special ways and allow us to be one in every eternally significant way and to live in peace and harmony.
I bear my sure and certain witness that Jesus Christ lives, and because of His Atonement, we can be one with Christ. In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


David, at age 17, had helped carry some of the Saints across the ice-filled Sweetwater River when they were stranded on the high plains of Wyoming (see Saints: The Story of the Church of Jesus Christ in the Latter Days, volume 2, No Unhallowed Hand, 1846–1893 [2020], 237).


See Moroni 7:27–28.


The Chief Rabbi of Norway, Rabbi Michael Melchior, and I were the keynote speakers at a Jewish–Latter-day Saint scholars’ dialogue held on June 5, 2019, at the BYU Jerusalem Center in Israel.


See John 17:20.


John 17:21–22.


See “The Conference Minutes and Record Book of Christ’s Church of Latter Day Saints, 1838–1839, 1844” (commonly known as the Far West Record), June 9, 1830, Church History Library, Salt Lake City; Steven C. Harper, Making Sense of the Doctrine and Covenants (2008), 75.


Doctrine and Covenants 20 was the first revelation published in the Church newspaper and was utilized by missionaries with respect to both doctrine and the administration of the ordinances of baptism and the sacrament (see Harper, Making Sense of the Doctrine and Covenants, 75).


See 2 Nephi 2:7.


See Doctrine and Covenants 20:37.


2 Nephi 26:33.


2 Nephi 26:28.


Peter Wood, Diversity: The Invention of a Concept (2003), 20.


Nehor took this position (see Alma 1:4).


See Doctrine and Covenants 29:49–50.


2 Nephi 2:27–28.


Stanford (publication of the Stanford Alumni Association), Dec. 2023, cover.


In Sam Scott, “As If You Had a Choice,” Stanford, Dec. 2023, 44. The article identifies the professor as Robert Sapolsky, a Stanford professor of biology, neurology, and neurosurgery and a best-selling author of science books. The article contains opposing views, including from Alfred Mele, a professor of philosophy at Florida State University who headed a large John Templeton Foundation project on free will. He stated, “Scientists most definitely have not proved that free will—even ambitious free will—is an illusion” (in Scott, “As If You Had a Choice,” 46).


See D. Todd Christofferson, “Moral Agency” (Brigham Young University devotional, Jan. 31, 2006), speeches.byu.edu.


See Doctrine and Covenants 58:27.


2 Nephi 2:27.


Moses 4:3.


True to the Faith: A Gospel Reference (2004), 12.


Alma 41:10.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 117–20.


1 Nephi 2:4.


Poetical Works of Ella Wheeler Wilcox (1917), 129.


I have always loved the quote shared by Elder Neal A. Maxwell that stated this in a most succinct fashion: “If you have not chosen the kingdom of God first, it will in the end make no difference what you have chosen instead” (attributed to William Law, an 18th-century English clergyman; quoted in Neal A. Maxwell, “Response to a Call,” Ensign, May 1974, 112).


See Doctrine and Covenants 20:29–31. Calvinist theology emphasized justification and sanctification of fallen souls through the grace of Jesus Christ. It taught that once God had predestined a soul for salvation, nothing could change the outcome. Doctrine and Covenants 20 makes a clean break with Calvinism. It reads, “There is a possibility that man may fall from grace and depart from the living God” (see Doctrine and Covenants 20:32–34; Harper, Making Sense of the Doctrine and Covenants, 74).


Russell M. Nelson, “Building Bridges,” New Era, Aug. 2018, 6; Liahona, Dec. 2018, 51.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Miracles, Angels, and Priesthood Power","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Miracles, Angels, and Priesthood Power

By Elder Shayne M. Bowen
Of the Seventy

If you desire the blessings of the priesthood, including miracles and the ministry of angels, walk the path of covenants God has made available.


Many today say that miracles no longer exist, that angels are fictional, and that the heavens are closed. I testify that miracles have not ceased, angels are among us, and the heavens are truly open.
When our Savior, Jesus Christ, was on the earth, He gave priesthood keys to His chief Apostle, Peter. Through these keys, Peter and the other Apostles led the Savior’s Church. But when those Apostles died, the keys of the priesthood were taken from the earth.
I testify that the ancient keys of the priesthood have been restored. Peter, James, and John and other ancient prophets appeared as resurrected beings, bestowing upon the Prophet Joseph Smith what the Lord described as “the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel.”
Those same keys have been passed from prophet to prophet until today. The 15 men we sustain as prophets, seers, and revelators use them to lead the Savior’s Church. As in ancient times, there is one senior Apostle who holds and is authorized to exercise all priesthood keys. He is President Russell M. Nelson, prophet and President of the restored Church of Christ in our day: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Through the Savior’s Church, we receive the blessings of the priesthood—including the power of God to help us in our lives. Under authorized priesthood keys, we make sacred promises to God and receive sacred ordinances that prepare us to live in His presence. Beginning with baptism and confirmation and then in the temple, we move forward on a path of covenants that leads us back to Him.
With hands laid on our heads, we also receive priesthood blessings, including direction, comfort, counsel, healing, and the power to follow Jesus Christ. Throughout my life I have been blessed by this great power. As it has been revealed in scripture, we refer to it as the power of the holy Melchizedek Priesthood.
In my youth I gained a great respect for this power, especially as it was manifest in priesthood blessings. While serving as a young missionary in Chile, my companion and I were arrested and separated. We were never told why. It was a time of great political upheaval. Thousands of people were taken into custody by the military police and never heard from again.
After being interrogated, I sat alone in a jail cell, not knowing if I would ever see my loved ones again. I turned to my Heavenly Father, fervently pleading: “Father, I have always been taught that Thou watcheth over Thy missionaries. Please, Father, I am nothing special, but I have been obedient and I need Thy help tonight.”
The seeds of this help had been planted many years earlier. After my baptism, I was confirmed a member of the Church and given the gift of the Holy Ghost. As I prayed, alone, behind bars, the Holy Ghost immediately came to me and comforted me. He brought to my mind a very special passage from my patriarchal blessing, which is another blessing of the priesthood. In it, God promised me that through my faithfulness I would be able to be sealed in the temple for time and eternity to a woman full of beauty and virtue and love, that we would become the parents of precious sons and daughters, and that I would be blessed and magnified as a father in Israel.
Those inspired words about my future filled my soul with peace. I knew that they had come from my loving Heavenly Father, who always keeps His promises. In that moment, I had the assurance that I would be released and live to see those promises fulfilled.
About a year later, Heavenly Father did bless me with a wife who is full of beauty and virtue and love. Lynette and I were sealed in the temple. We were blessed with three precious sons and four precious daughters. I became a father, all according to God’s promises in the patriarchal blessing I received as a 17-year-old boy.
“Wherefore, my beloved brethren [and sisters], have miracles ceased because Christ hath ascended into heaven? …
“… Nay; neither have angels ceased to minister unto the children of men.”
I testify that miracles and ministrations are continually occurring in our lives, often as a direct result of priesthood power. Some priesthood blessings are fulfilled immediately, in ways we can see and understand. Others are unfolding gradually and will not be fully realized in this life. But God keeps all of His promises, always, as illustrated in this account from our family history:
My paternal grandfather, Grant Reese Bowen, was a man of great faith. I vividly remember hearing him recount how he received his own patriarchal blessing. In his journal, he recorded: “The patriarch promised me the gift of healing. He said, ‘The sick shall be healed. Yea, the dead shall be raised under your hands.’”
Years later, Grandfather was piling hay when he felt prompted to return to the house. He was met by his father coming toward him. “Grant, your mother has just passed away,” his father said.
I quote again from Grandfather’s journal: “I didn’t stop but went hurrying into the house and out on the front porch where she lay on a cot. I looked at her and could see there was no sign of life left in her. I remembered my patriarchal blessing and the promise that if I were faithful, through my faith the sick would be healed; and the dead would be raised. I placed my hands on her head, and I told the Lord that if the promise that He had made to me by the patriarch was true, to make it manifest at this time and raise my mother back to life. I promised Him if He would do this, I should never hesitate to do all in my power for the building up of His kingdom. As I prayed, she opened her eyes and said, ‘Grant, raise me up. I have been in the spirit world, but you have called me back. Let this always be a testimony to you and to the rest of my family.’”
President Russell M. Nelson has taught us to seek and expect miracles. I testify that because the priesthood has been restored, the power and authority of God are upon the earth. Through callings and councils, men and women, young and old, can participate in priesthood work. It is a work of miracles, attended by angels. It is the work of heaven, and it blesses all God’s children.
In 1989, our family of seven was returning from a ward outing. It was late. Lynette was expecting our sixth child. She felt a strong prompting to fasten her seat belt, which she had forgotten to do. Shortly thereafter we came around a bend in the road; a car crossed the line into our lane. Going about 70 miles (112 km) an hour, I swerved to avoid hitting the oncoming car. Our van rolled, skidded down the highway, and slid off the road, finally coming to a stop, landing with the passenger side in the dirt.
The next thing I remember hearing was Lynette’s voice: “Shayne, we need to get out through your door.” I was hanging in the air by my seat belt. It took a few seconds to get oriented. We started lifting each of the children out of the van through my window, which was now the ceiling of the van. They were crying, wondering what had happened.
We soon realized that our 10-year-old daughter, Emily, was missing. We yelled her name, but there was no response. Ward members, who were also traveling home, were at the scene frantically looking for her. It was so dark. I looked in the van again with a flashlight and, to my horror, saw Emily’s tiny body trapped under the van. I called out desperately, “We have to lift the van off of Emily.” I grabbed the roof and pulled back. There were only a few others lifting, but the van miraculously flipped onto its wheels, exposing Emily’s lifeless body.
Emily was not breathing. Her face was the color of a purple plum. I said, “We need to give her a blessing.” A dear friend and ward member knelt with me, and by the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood, in the name of Jesus Christ, we commanded her to live. In that moment, Emily took a long raspy breath.
After what seemed like hours, the ambulance finally arrived. Emily was rushed to the hospital. She had a collapsed lung and a severed tendon in her knee. Brain damage was a concern because of the time she was without oxygen. Emily was in a coma for a day and a half. We continued to pray and fast for her. She was blessed with a full recovery. Today, Emily and her husband, Kevin, are the parents of six daughters.
Miraculously, everyone else was able to walk away. The baby Lynette was carrying was Tyson. He too was spared any harm and was born the next February. Eight months later, after receiving his earthly body, Tyson returned home to Heavenly Father. He is our guardian angel son. We feel his influence in our family and look forward to being with him again.
Those who lifted the van off of Emily observed that the van seemed to weigh nothing. I knew that heavenly angels had joined with earthly angels to lift the vehicle off of Emily’s body. I also know that Emily was brought back to life by the power of the holy priesthood.

The Lord revealed this truth to His servants: “I will go before your face. I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up.”
I testify that “the Holy Priesthood, after the Order of the Son of God”—the Melchizedek Priesthood—with its keys, authority, and power has been restored to the earth in these latter days. I know that while not all circumstances turn out like we may hope and pray for, God’s miracles will always come according to His will, His timing, and His plan for us.
If you desire the blessings of the priesthood, including miracles and the ministry of angels, I invite you to walk the path of covenants God has made available to each of us. Members and leaders of the Church who love you will help you take the next step.
I testify that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, lives and leads His Church through living prophets who hold and exercise priesthood keys. The Holy Ghost is real. The Savior gave His life to heal us, reclaim us, and bring us home.
I witness that miracles have not ceased, angels are among us, and the heavens are open. And oh, how open they are! In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Matthew 16:17–19; Doctrine and Covenants 13; 110; 128:18, 21.


See Doctrine and Covenants 27:12–13.


See Doctrine and Covenants 107:1–4.


See Doctrine and Covenants 82:10.


Moroni 7:27, 29.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 99–100.


See Shayne M. Bowen, “Because I Live, Ye Shall Live Also,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2012, 16.


Doctrine and Covenants 84:88.


Doctrine and Covenants 107:3.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Foreordained to Serve","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Foreordained to Serve

By Elder Steven R. Bangerter
Of the Seventy

Our Heavenly Father desires to reveal to you your personal foreordination, and He will do so as you seek to learn and follow His will.


This evening, I speak to the youth of the Church, the rising generation of young men and young women who are the standard bearers for the next generation.
In October 2013, our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, declared: “Your Heavenly Father has known you for a very long time. You, as His son or daughter, were chosen by Him to come to earth at this precise time, to be a leader in His great work on earth.”
Two years ago, President Nelson continued:
“Today I reaffirm strongly that the Lord has asked every worthy, able young man to prepare for and serve a mission. For Latter-day Saint young men, missionary service is a priesthood responsibility. You young men have been reserved for this time when the promised gathering of Israel is taking place. …
“For you young and able sisters, a mission is also a powerful, but optional, opportunity. … Pray to know if the Lord would have you serve a mission, and the Holy Ghost will respond to your heart and mind.”
Our prophet’s references to the Lord holding the youth of our day in reserve for this time in the gathering of Israel and his invitation to pray to know what the Lord would have you do are, in part, references to the life you lived and blessings you received from God before you were born on this earth. All of us who are born on this earth first lived with our Heavenly Father as His spirit children. The Lord declared to Moses, “I, the Lord God, created all things … spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth.”
When He created you spiritually, He loved you as His spirit sons and daughters and embedded within each of you a divine nature and eternal destiny.
During your premortal life, you “developed [your] identity and increased [your] spiritual capabilities.” You were blessed with the gift of agency, the ability to make choices for yourself, and you did make important decisions, such as the decision to follow Heavenly Father’s plan of happiness, which is to “obtain a physical body and gain earthly experience to progress … and ultimately realize [your] divine destiny as heirs of eternal life.” This decision affected your life then, in your premortal life, and it continues to affect your life now. As a child of God living in your premortal life, you “grew in intelligence and learned to love the truth.”
Before you were born, God appointed each of you to fulfill specific missions during your mortal life upon the earth. If you remain worthy, the blessings of that premortal decree will enable you to have all kinds of opportunities in this life, including opportunities to serve in the Church and to participate in the most important work happening on the earth today: the gathering of Israel. Those premortal promises and blessings are called your foreordination. “The doctrine of foreordination applies to all members of the Church.” Foreordination does not guarantee that you will receive certain callings or responsibilities. These blessings and opportunities come in this life as a result of your righteous exercise of agency, just as your foreordination in your premortal life came as a result of righteousness. As you prove yourself worthy and progress along the covenant path, you will receive opportunities to serve in your Young Women class or priesthood quorum. You will be blessed to serve in the temple, to become a ministering brother or sister, and to serve a mission as a disciple of Jesus Christ.
Why does it matter to seek to know and understand your foreordination? In a day when questions abound, when so many seek to know their true identity, the fact that God knows and has blessed each one of us individually before we were ever born on this earth with “essential characteristic[s] of … premortal, mortal, and eternal identity and purpose” brings sweet peace and assurance to our mind and heart. Knowing who you are begins with understanding God’s foreordained blessings bestowed upon you before you were ever born on this earth. Our Heavenly Father desires to reveal to you your personal foreordination, and He will do so as you seek to learn and follow His will.
I love to read President Nelson’s Instagram posts. One of my favorites was on July 20, 2022. He wrote:
“I believe that if the Lord were speaking to you directly, the first thing He would make sure you understand is your true identity. My dear friends, you are literally spirit children of God. …
“… Make no mistake about it: Your potential is divine. With your diligent seeking, God will give you glimpses of who you may become.”
May I share with you how my earthly father taught me to discover my identity and God’s plan in my life?
One Saturday morning when I was 13 years old, I was mowing the grass as part of my weekly chores. When I finished, I heard the door close at the back of our house and looked to see my father calling me to join him. I walked to the back porch, and he invited me to sit with him on the steps. It was a beautiful morning. I still recall him sitting so close to me that our shoulders were touching. He began by telling me he loved me. He asked me what my goals were in life. I thought, “Well, that’s easy.” I knew two things for sure: I wanted to be taller, and I wanted to go camping more often. I was a simple soul. He smiled, paused for a moment, and said: “Steve, I’d like to share something with you that’s very important to me. I’ve prayed that our Heavenly Father will cause what I say now to be indelibly imprinted in your mind and on your soul so that you’ll never forget.”
My father had my full attention in that moment. He turned and looked at me in the eyes and said, “Son, protect the private times of your life.” There was a long pause as he let the meaning sink deep into my heart.
He then continued, “You know, those times when you’re the only one around and no one else knows what you’re doing? Those times when you think, ‘Whatever I do now doesn’t affect anyone else, only me’?”

Then he said, “More than any other time in your life, what you do during the private times of your life will have the greatest impact on how you confront challenges and heartache you will face; and what you do during the private times of your life will also have a greater impact on how you confront the successes and joy you will experience than any other time in your life.”
My father received the wish of his heart. The sound and cadence of his voice, and the love I felt in his words, were indelibly imprinted in my mind and on my soul that day.
I have learned over the years that the greatest miracle of that day on the steps of my childhood home was that, in the private times of my life, I could go to God in prayer to receive revelation. My father was teaching me how I could learn of God’s foreordained blessings. In those private moments, I learned the Book of Mormon is the word of God. I learned God had foreordained me to serve a mission. I learned that God knows me and hears and answers my prayers. I learned that Jesus is the Christ, our Savior and Redeemer.
Though I have made many mistakes since that memorable day with my father, striving to protect the private times of my life has remained an anchor amid the storms of life and has enabled me to seek safe haven and the healing, strengthening blessings of our Savior’s love and atoning sacrifice.
My young brothers and sisters, as you protect the private times of your life with wholesome recreation; listening to uplifting music; reading the scriptures; having regular, meaningful prayer; and making efforts to receive and ponder your patriarchal blessing, you will receive revelation. In President Nelson’s words, your eyes will become “wide open to the truth that this life really is the time when you get to decide what kind of life you want to live forever.”
Our Father in Heaven will answer your prayers, especially your prayers offered during the private times of your life. He will reveal to you your foreordained gifts and talents, and you will feel His love envelop you, if you will sincerely ask and genuinely desire to know. As you protect the private times of your life, your participation in the ordinances and covenants of the gospel will be more meaningful. You will more fully bind yourself to God in the covenants you make with Him, and you will be lifted to have greater hope, faith, and assurance in the promises He has made to you. Do you want to know God’s plan for you? I bear witness He wants you to know, and He inspired His prophet to the world to invite each of us to pray and receive this eye-opening experience for ourselves. I bear witness to the reality and power of our Savior’s atoning sacrifice that makes it possible to live up to and enjoy all of God’s foreordained blessings, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Russell M. Nelson, “Decisions for Eternity,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2013, 107.


Russell M. Nelson, “Preaching the Gospel of Peace,” Liahona, May 2022, 6.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel” (worldwide youth devotional, June 3, 2018), Gospel Library: “Our Heavenly Father has reserved many of His most noble spirits—perhaps, I might say, His finest team—for this final phase. Those noble spirits—those finest players, those heroes—are you!”


See Jeremiah 1:5.


Moses 3:5.


See “The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library; “Young Women Theme,” Gospel Library; “Aaronic Priesthood Quorum Theme,” Gospel Library.


Topics and Questions, “Premortal Life: Overview,” Gospel Library.


“The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library.


See Alma 13:1–4.


Topics and Questions, “Premortal Life: Overview,” Gospel Library; see also Doctrine and Covenants 138:55–56.


See Topics and Questions, “Foreordination,” Gospel Library.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel.”


Topics and Questions, “Foreordination,” Gospel Library; see also Jeremiah 1:5; “What Is the Relationship between Foreordination and Agency?,” Liahona, Oct. 2023, 47; Guide to the Scriptures, “Foreordination,” Gospel Library.


See Alma 13:1–4; Doctrine and Covenants 130:20–21.


“The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library.


See Jeremiah 1:5.


Russell M. Nelson, Instagram, July 20, 2022, Instagram.com/russellmnelson.


Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022), Gospel Library.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Revelation for the Church, Revelation for Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 93–96.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Faithful to the End","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Faithful to the End

By Sister Andrea Muñoz Spannaus
Second Counselor in the Young Women General Presidency

By His hand, you will be able to bring down every Goliath that appears in your life.


Dear young friends, today I would like to speak directly to you—the youth of the Church.
It’s been a year since our Young Women General Presidency was called. How much has happened in this past year!
We have met many of you and have studied the teachings of Christ together. We have sung songs, made new friends, and served with you in our communities. We have been strengthened by listening to your testimonies at youth conferences and world events. And we have worshipped together in the house of the Lord.
Each time, we have shared a message from our Lord Jesus Christ. Tonight will not be different; I have a message for you, the youth of the Church of Jesus Christ.


The Big Questions

Have you ever wondered how you can be faithful to God while living in a world of sin? Where do you get the strength to go forward and continue doing good? How do you experience true joy?

I think the experience of David and Goliath can help.



David and Goliath

In the Old Testament, the army of the Philistines was battling the Israelites, and every morning and every evening, a giant Philistine named Goliath challenged any Israelite to fight him.

Among the Israelite people lived David, a young shepherd much smaller than Goliath but with a giant faith in Jesus Christ! David volunteered to fight. Even the king tried to dissuade him, but David chose to put his trust in Jesus Christ.
Previously, David had fought a lion and also a bear. From his own experience, he knew that God had protected him and made him victorious. To David, the cause of God was the most important cause. So, full of faith in a God who would not abandon him, he gathered five smooth stones, took up his sling, and went to face the giant.

The scriptures tell us that the first stone David threw hit Goliath’s forehead, ending his life.



Searching for the Answer

While David used only one stone to kill Goliath, he was prepared with five. With five! This makes me think about how I can prepare myself to face the world.
What if each of David’s stones represented a strength we need to be triumphant in our lives? What could those five stones be? I thought of these possibilities:


The stone of my love for God.


The stone of my faith in our Savior, Jesus Christ.


The stone of the knowledge of my true identity.


The stone of my daily repentance.


The stone of my access to God’s power.


Let’s talk about how we are blessed by these strengths.
First, the stone of my love for God. Loving God is the first great commandment. The For the Strength of Youth guide teaches us: “God loves you. He is your Father. His perfect love can inspire you to love Him. When your love for Heavenly Father is the most important influence in your life, many decisions become easier.”
Our love for God and our close relationship with Him give us the strength we need to transform our hearts and more easily overcome our challenges.
Second, the stone of my faith in our Savior, Jesus Christ. When Jesus Christ came to earth, He suffered for our sins, and He took upon Himself our sorrows, our pains, our weaknesses, and our physical and mental illnesses. That’s why He knows how to help us. Having faith in Jesus Christ means to fully trust His wisdom, His timing, His love, and His power to atone for our sins. The stone of faith in Jesus Christ will defeat any “giant” in our lives. We can overcome this fallen world because He overcame it first.
Number three, the stone of the knowledge of my true identity. Our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, taught us that our most important identities are as children of God, children of the covenant, and disciples of Jesus Christ.
Everything changes when I know who I really am. When I doubt my abilities, I often repeat to myself in my mind or out loud, “I am a daughter of God, I am a daughter of God,” as many times as I need until I again feel confident to keep going.
Fourth, the stone of my daily repentance. In the For the Strength of Youth guide, we read: “Repentance isn’t punishment for sin; it is the way the Savior frees us from sin. To repent means to change―to turn away from sin and toward God. It means to improve and receive forgiveness. This kind of change is not a one-time event; it’s an ongoing process.”
Nothing is more liberating than feeling God’s forgiveness and knowing that we are clean and reconciled with Him. Forgiveness is possible for everyone.
The fifth stone is the stone of my access to God’s power. The covenants we make with God, such as those we make in the ordinance of baptism, give us access to the power of godliness. God’s power is a real power that helps us face challenges, make good decisions, and increase our capacity to endure difficult situations. It is a power with which we can grow in the specific abilities that we need.
The For the Strength of Youth guide explains: “Covenants connect you to Heavenly Father and the Savior. They increase God’s power in your life.”
Let’s talk about that connection. Remember when Christ taught the difference between a house built on rock and one on sand? Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf explained: “A house doesn’t survive in a storm because the house is strong. It also doesn’t survive just because the rock is strong. The house survives the storm because it is firmly attached to that strong rock. It’s the strength of the connection to the rock that matters.”

Our personal connection to Jesus Christ will give us the courage and confidence to move forward amid people who do not respect our beliefs or who bully us. Christ invites us to keep Him in our thoughts constantly; He tells us, “Look unto me in every thought.” Thinking about the Savior gives us clarity of mind to make decisions, to act without fear, and to say no to what is contrary to God’s teachings. When my day is difficult and I feel like I can’t take any more, thinking about Christ brings me peace and gives me hope.
How can we draw upon this power of Jesus Christ? Obeying our covenants and increasing our faith in Jesus Christ are key.
I actually wish David had had one more stone; that would be the stone of my testimony. Our testimony is built by personal spiritual experiences in which we recognize the divine influence in our lives. No one can take that knowledge from us. Knowing what we know from having lived our spiritual experiences is priceless. Being true to that knowledge gives us freedom. It gives us joy! If we love the truth, we will seek it, and once we find it, we will defend it.



An Invitation

Just as I chose stone number six, I invite you to meet with your class, quorum, or family and think about what other strengths you need to acquire to remain faithful to God and, therefore, overcome the world.



A Promise

Dear friends, Christ is eager to accompany us on the journey of our lives. I promise you, as you hold on to the iron rod, you will walk hand in hand with Jesus Christ. He will be guiding you, and He will be teaching you. By His hand, you will be able to bring down every Goliath that appears in your life.



Testimony

I testify that there is joy in praying every day, in reading the Book of Mormon every day, in partaking of the sacrament every Sunday, and in going to seminary—even in the early morning! There is joy in doing good.
There is joy in being faithful to the God of the universe, the Savior of the world, the King of kings. There is joy in being a disciple of Jesus Christ.
God is our Father. He knows your heart’s desires and your possibilities, and He trusts you.
Dear youth, Jesus Christ will help you to be faithful to the end. Of these truths I bear my testimony in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See 1 Samuel 17.


See 1 Samuel 17:40, 45–49.


See Matthew 22:36–38.


For the Strength of Youth: A Guide for Making Choices (2022), 11.


See Alma 7:11–14.


See 1 Nephi 7:12.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 95–98.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022), Gospel Library.


See “Young Women Theme” and “Aaronic Priesthood Quorum Theme,” Gospel Library.


For the Strength of Youth, 7.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 97–100; see also Doctrine and Covenants 84:19–21.


See General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 3.5, Gospel Library.


For the Strength of Youth, 34; emphasis added.


See 3 Nephi 14:24–27.


Dieter F. Uchtdorf, “For the Strength of Youth: The Savior’s Message to You,” For the Strength of Youth, Mar. 2024, 38.


Doctrine and Covenants 6:36; emphasis added.


See Doctrine and Covenants 6:33–34.


See Dallin H. Oaks, “Testimony,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2008, 26–29; see also Alma 5:46.


See For the Strength of Youth, 32: “Love the truth so much that you would never want to steal, lie, cheat, or deceive in any way—at school, at work, online, everywhere. Be the same faithful follower of Jesus Christ in public and in private.”


See 1 Nephi 8:19, 30; 15:24–25; Helaman 3:29–30.


See 3 Nephi 22:13.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Fruit That Remains","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Fruit That Remains

By Elder Matthew L. Carpenter
Of the Seventy

Having the Holy Ghost seal our ordinances is essential if we want to have the promised blessings for all eternity.


As a young boy, I loved fresh, ripe peaches. To this day, the idea of biting into a juicy, ripe peach with its tangy flavor makes my mouth water. When fully matured peaches are picked, they last two to four days before they spoil. I have fond memories of joining with my mother and my siblings in our kitchen as we would preserve harvested peaches for the coming winter by sealing them in bottles. If we preserved the peaches correctly, this delicious fruit would last several years, not just two to four days. If properly prepared and heated, the fruit is preserved until the seal is broken.
Christ directed us to “go and bring forth fruit, … that your fruit should remain.” But He wasn’t speaking about peaches. He was talking about God’s blessings to His children. If we make and keep covenants with God, the blessings associated with our covenants can extend beyond this life and be sealed upon us, or preserved, forever, becoming fruit that remains for all eternity.
The Holy Ghost, in His divine role as the Holy Spirit of Promise, will seal each ordinance upon those who are faithful to their covenants so that it will be valid after mortality. Having the Holy Ghost seal our ordinances is essential if we want to have the promised blessings for all eternity, becoming fruit that remains.
This is particularly important if we want to be exalted. As President Russell M. Nelson has taught, we should “begin with the end in mind. … Surely, for each of us, the ‘end’ we would most like to achieve is to live forever with our families in an exalted state where we will be in the presence of God, our Heavenly Father, and His Son Jesus Christ.” President Nelson has also said: “Celestial marriage is a pivotal part of preparation for eternal life. It requires one to be married to the right person, in the right place, by the right authority, and to obey that sacred covenant faithfully. Then one may be assured of exaltation in the celestial kingdom of God.”
What are the blessings of exaltation? They include dwelling in God’s presence for eternity together as husband and wife, inheriting “thrones, kingdoms, principalities, and powers, … and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever,” receiving all that God the Father has.
The Lord revealed through Joseph Smith:
“In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees;
“And in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order of the priesthood [meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage];
“And if he does not, he cannot obtain it.
“He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom; he cannot have an increase.”
We learn here that one can be in the celestial kingdom, or dwell in the presence of God, and be single. But to be exalted in the highest degree of the celestial kingdom, one must enter into marriage by the proper authority and then be true to the covenants made in that marriage. As we are faithful to these covenants, the Holy Spirit of Promise can seal our marriage covenant. Such sealed blessings become fruit that remains.
What is required to faithfully keep the new and everlasting covenant of marriage?
President Russell M. Nelson has taught there are two types of bonds when we enter into this eternal marriage covenant: a lateral bond between husband and wife, and a vertical bond with God. To have the blessings of exaltation sealed upon us and remain after this life, we must be true to both the lateral and the vertical bonds of the covenant.
To keep the lateral bond with your spouse, God has counseled us to “love [your] wife [or husband] with all [your] heart, and … cleave unto her [or him] and none else.” For those who are married, to cleave unto her or him and none else means you counsel together in love, you love and care for each other, you prioritize time with your spouse over outside interests, and you call upon God to help you overcome your weaknesses. It also means there is no emotional intimacy or sexual relations of any kind outside of your marriage, including flirting or dating, and there is no pornography, which engenders lust.
To keep the lateral bond in the covenant, each partner must desire to be in the marriage. President Dallin H. Oaks recently taught: “We also know that He [God] will force no one into a sealing relationship against his or her will. The blessings of a sealed relationship are assured for all who keep their covenants but never by forcing a sealed relationship on another person who is unworthy or unwilling.”
What is the vertical bond referred to by President Nelson? The vertical bond is one we make with God.
To keep the vertical bond with God, we are true to the temple covenants we have made regarding the laws of obedience, sacrifice, the gospel, chastity, and consecration. We also covenant with God to receive our eternal companion and to be a righteous spouse and parent. As we keep the vertical bond, we qualify for the blessings of being part of the family of God through the Abrahamic covenant, including the blessings of posterity, the gospel, and the priesthood. These blessings are also the fruit that remains.
While we hope that all who enter into the new and everlasting covenant remain true and have the blessings sealed upon them for all eternity, sometimes that ideal seems beyond our reach. Throughout my ministry I have encountered members who make and keep covenants while their spouse does not. There are also those who are single, never having the opportunity to marry in mortality. And there are those who are not faithful in their marriage covenants. What happens to individuals in each of these circumstances?


If you remain faithful to the covenants you made when you were endowed, you will receive the personal blessings promised to you in the endowment even if your spouse has broken his or her covenants or withdrawn from the marriage. If you were sealed and later divorced, and if your sealing is not canceled, the personal blessings of that sealing remain in effect for you if you remain faithful.

Sometimes, due to feelings of betrayal and very real hurt, a faithful spouse may want to cancel their sealing with their unfaithful spouse to get as far away as possible from them, both on earth and for eternity. If you are concerned that you will somehow be tied to an unrepentant former spouse, remember, you will not! God will not require anyone to remain in a sealed relationship throughout eternity against his or her will. Heavenly Father will ensure that we will receive every blessing that our desires and choices allow.
However, if a cancellation of sealing is desired, agency is respected. Certain procedures can be followed. But this should not be done casually! The First Presidency holds the keys to bind on earth and in heaven. Once a sealing cancellation has been granted by the First Presidency, the blessings related to that sealing are no longer in force; they are canceled both laterally and vertically. It is important to understand that to receive the blessings of exaltation, we must demonstrate that we are willing to enter into and faithfully keep this new and everlasting covenant, either in this life or the next.


For those who are single members of the Church, please remember that “in the Lord’s own way and time, no blessings will be withheld from His faithful Saints. The Lord will judge and reward each individual according to heartfelt [desires] as well as deed.”


If you have not remained faithful to temple covenants, is there hope? Yes! The gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of hope. That hope comes through Jesus Christ with sincere repentance and obediently following Christ’s teachings. I have seen individuals make grave mistakes, breaking sacred covenants. On a regular basis, I see those who sincerely repent, are forgiven, and return to the covenant path. If you have broken your temple covenants, I urge you to turn to Jesus Christ, counsel with your bishop, repent, and open your soul to the mighty healing power available because of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.


Brothers and sisters, our loving Heavenly Father has given us covenants so that we may have access to all that He has in store for us. These sacred blessings from God are more delicious than any earthly fruit. They can be preserved for us forever, becoming fruit that remains, as we are faithful to our covenants.
I testify that God has restored the authority to bind on earth and in heaven. That authority is found in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is held by the First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve and is exercised under the direction of President Russell M. Nelson. Those who enter into the new and everlasting covenant of marriage and keep that covenant can become perfected and eventually receive the fulness of the glory of the Father, regardless of circumstances beyond their control.
These promised blessings appertaining to our covenants can be sealed upon us by the Holy Spirit of Promise and become fruit that remains forever and ever. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


John 15:16.


See Dale G. Renlund, “Accessing God’s Power through Covenants,” Liahona, May 2023, 35–38; Doctrine and Covenants 132:7.


An ordinance is sealed when it is made valid both in heaven and on earth because it is performed by one having authority and is ratified by the Holy Ghost.
“We tend to think of the sealing authority as applying only to certain temple ordinances, but that authority is necessary to make any ordinance valid and binding beyond death. The sealing power confers a seal of legitimacy upon your baptism, for example, so that it is recognized here and in heaven. Ultimately, all priesthood ordinances are performed under the keys of the President of the Church, and as President Joseph Fielding Smith explained, ‘He [the President of the Church] has given us authority, he has put the sealing power in our priesthood, because he holds those keys’ [quoted by Harold B. Lee, in Conference Report, Oct. 1944, 75]” (D. Todd Christofferson, “The Sealing Power,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 20).
“An act which is sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise is one which is ratified by the Holy Ghost; it is one which is approved by the Lord. … No one can lie to the Holy Ghost and get by undetected. … These principles also apply to every other ordinance and performance in the Church. Thus if both parties [in a marriage] are ‘just and true’ [Doctrine and Covenants 76:53], if they are worthy, a ratifying seal is placed on their temple marriage; if they are unworthy, they are not justified by the Spirit and the ratification of the Holy Ghost is withheld. Subsequent worthiness will put the seal in force, and unrighteousness will break any seal” (Bruce R. McConkie, “Holy Spirit of Promise,” in Preparing for an Eternal Marriage Student Manual [2003], 136).
“The Holy Spirit of Promise is the Holy Ghost who places the stamp of approval upon every ordinance: baptism, confirmation, ordination, marriage. The promise is that the blessings will be received through faithfulness. If a person violates a covenant, whether it be of baptism, ordination, marriage or anything else, the Spirit withdraws the stamp of approval, and the blessings will not be received. Every ordinance is sealed with a promise of a reward based upon faithfulness. The Holy Spirit withdraws the stamp of approval where covenants are broken” (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, comp. Bruce R. McConkie [1954], 1:45).


Russell M. Nelson, Heart of the Matter: What 100 Years of Living Have Taught Me (2023), 15. All covenants must be sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise if they are to have force after the resurrection of the dead (see Doctrine and Covenants 132:7).


Russell M. Nelson, “Celestial Marriage,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2008, 94.


Doctrine and Covenants 132:19.


See Doctrine and Covenants 84:38.


Doctrine and Covenants 131:1–4.


See Doctrine and Covenants 132:19–20. “That highest destination—exaltation in the celestial kingdom—is the focus of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints” (Dallin H. Oaks, “Kingdoms of Glory,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 26).


“Just as marriages and families share a unique lateral bond [which] creates a special love, so does the new relationship formed when we bind ourselves by covenant vertically to … God” when we enter into the new and everlasting covenant of marriage (Russell M. Nelson, Heart of the Matter, 41–42).


Doctrine and Covenants 42:22; see also General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 38.6.16. In discussing marriage here, I am referring to marriage according to God’s law, which defines marriage as the legal and lawful union between a man and a woman (see “The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library).


See “The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library.


See Doctrine and Covenants 42:22–24.


Dallin H. Oaks, “Kingdoms of Glory,” 29; emphasis added.


See Doctrine and Covenants 86:8–11; 113:8; Abraham 2:9–11.


See General Handbook, 38.4.1.
While I was serving a full-time mission in Switzerland, my companion and I shared the gospel with a wonderful 60-year-old Swiss couple. As we taught this couple about the restored Church of Jesus Christ, the woman showed great interest in what we were teaching. Over the next few weeks, she gained a testimony of the reality that the Church of Jesus Christ was restored with correct authority from God and that Jesus Christ directs His Church through living prophets and apostles. We looked forward to teaching this couple about one of the most sublime doctrines of the Restoration, the opportunity for eternal marriage. Surprisingly, however, as we taught this couple about the doctrine of eternal marriage, the Swiss woman remarked that she had no interest in being with her husband for all eternity. To her, heaven did not include being with her husband, to whom she had been married for 36 years. This sister was baptized, but her husband was not. They were never sealed in the temple.
To many, however, heaven would not be heaven without being with the person to whom they are married. To be together with the spouse you love forever truly sounds like heaven. As Elder Jeffrey R. Holland shared about his dear, beloved wife, Pat, heaven would not be heaven without her (see “Scott Taylor: For Elder Holland, Heaven without His Wife and Children ‘Wouldn’t Be Heaven for Me,’” Church News, July 22, 2023, thechurchnews.com).


See Dallin H. Oaks, “Kingdoms of Glory,” 26.


Russell M. Nelson, “Celestial Marriage,” 94.


See John 15:16.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"A Higher Joy","year":"2024","month":"04"}



A Higher Joy

By Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

May we all seek and find the higher joy that comes from devoting our lives to our Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son.


I have had the great blessing of speaking at general conference for three decades now. During that time, I have been asked questions relating to these messages by many around the world. Lately, one particular question keeps coming up. It usually goes something like this: “Elder Uchtdorf, I listened carefully to your last talk, but … I didn’t hear anything about aviation.”
Well, after today, I might not hear that question for a while.


On “the Tumbling Mirth of Sun-Split Clouds”

It’s hard to believe it was only 120 years ago when Wilbur and Orville Wright first lifted off and flew over the sands of Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. Four short flights on that December day changed the world and opened the door to one of the greatest inventions in the world’s history.
Flying was risky in those early days. The brothers knew this. And so did their father, Milton. In fact, he was so terrified of losing both of his sons in a flying accident that they promised him they would never fly together.
And they never did—with one exception. Seven years after that historic day at Kitty Hawk, Milton Wright finally gave his consent and watched as Wilbur and Orville flew together for the first time. After landing, Orville convinced his father to take his first and only flight and to see for himself what it was like.
As the plane lifted from the ground, the 82-year-old Milton got so caught up in the exhilaration of flight that all fear left him. Orville rejoiced as his father shouted with delight, “Higher, Orville, higher!”
This was a man after my own heart!
Perhaps the reason I speak about aviation occasionally is that I know something of what the Wrights felt. I too have “slipped the surly bonds of Earth and danced the skies on laughter-silvered wings.”
The Wright brothers’ first flight, which happened a mere 37 years before my birth, opened doors of adventure, wonder, and pure joy into my life.
And yet, as amazing as that joy is, there is an even higher kind of joy. Today, in the spirit of Milton Wright’s delighted cry, “Higher, Orville, higher,” I would like to speak about this higher joy—where it comes from, how it enters our hearts, and how we can experience it in greater measure.



The Whole Aim of Human Existence

It probably goes without saying that everyone wants to be happy. Nevertheless, it also goes without saying that not everyone is happy. Sadly, it seems that for many people, happiness is hard to find.
Why is that? If happiness is the one thing we humans desire most, why are we so unsuccessful at finding it? To paraphrase a country song, maybe we’ve been looking for joy in all the wrong places.



Where Can We Find Happiness?

Before we discuss how to find joy, allow me to acknowledge that depression and other difficult mental and emotional challenges are real, and the answer is not simply “Try to be happier.” My purpose today is not to diminish or trivialize mental health issues. If you face such challenges, I mourn with you, and I stand beside you. For some people, finding joy may include seeking help from trained mental health professionals who devote their lives to practicing their very important art. We should be thankful for such help.
Life is not an endless sequence of emotional highs. “For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things.” And if God Himself weeps, as the scriptures affirm He does, then of course you and I will weep as well. Feeling sad is not a sign of failure. In this life, at least, joy and sorrow are inseparable companions. Like all of you, I have felt my share of disappointment, sorrow, sadness, and remorse.
However, I have also experienced for myself the glorious dawn that fills the soul with joy so profound that it can scarcely be kept in. I have discovered for myself that this peaceful confidence comes from following the Savior and walking in His Way.
The peace He gives us is not like what the world gives. It’s better. It’s higher and holier. Jesus said, “I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.”
The gospel of Jesus Christ is truly the “good news of great joy”! It is a message of matchless hope! A message of yoke-bearing and burden-lifting. Of light-gathering. Of heavenly favor, higher understanding, holier covenants, eternal security, and everlasting glory!
Joy is the very purpose of God’s plan for His children. It’s what you were created for—“that [you] might have joy”! You were built for this!
Our Father in Heaven has not hidden the path to happiness. It is not a secret. It is available to all!
It is promised to those who walk the path of discipleship, follow the teachings and example of the Savior, keep His commandments, and honor covenants they make with God. What a remarkable promise!



God Has Something More to Offer

We all know people who say that they don’t need God to be happy, that they are happy enough without religion.
I acknowledge and respect these feelings. Our beloved Father in Heaven wants all His children to have as much happiness as possible, so He has filled this world with beautiful, wholesome pleasures and delights, “both to please the eye and … gladden the heart.” For me, flying brought great happiness. Others find it in music, in art, in hobbies, or in nature.
By inviting everyone and sharing the Savior’s good news of great joy, we do not discount any of these sources of joy. We’re simply saying that God has something more to give. A higher and more profound joy—a joy that transcends anything this world offers. It is a joy that endures heartbreak, penetrates sorrow, and diminishes loneliness.
Worldly happiness, by contrast, does not last. It cannot. It is the nature of all earthly things to grow old, decay, wear out, or become stale. But godly joy is eternal, because God is eternal. Jesus Christ came to lift us out of the temporal and replace corruption with incorruption. Only He has that power, and only His joy is perpetual.
If you feel there could be more of this kind of joy in your life, I invite you to embark on the journey of following Jesus Christ and His Way. It is a journey of a lifetime—and beyond. Please let me suggest a few beginning steps on this worthy journey of discovering pure joy.



Draw Near unto God

Do you remember the woman in the New Testament who endured a bleeding illness for 12 years? She had spent all she had on physicians, but things only grew worse. She had heard of Jesus; His power to heal was well known. But could He heal her? And how could she even get near Him? Her sickness made her “unclean” according to the law of Moses, and therefore she was required to stay away from others.
Approaching Him openly and asking for healing seemed out of the question.
Still, she thought, “If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.”
At last, her faith overcame her fear. She braved the censure of others and pressed toward the Savior.
Finally, she was within reach. She extended her hand.
And she was healed.
Aren’t we all somewhat like this woman?
There may be many reasons why we hesitate to draw near to the Savior. We may face ridicule or condemnation by others. In our pride, we may dismiss the possibility of something so simple being of so much value. We may think that our condition somehow disqualifies us from His healing—that the distance is too great or our sins too many.
Like this woman, I have learned that if we draw near to God and reach out to touch Him, we can indeed find healing, peace, and joy.



Look for It

Jesus taught, “Seek, and ye shall find.”
I believe this simple phrase is not only a spiritual promise; it is a statement of fact.
If we seek reasons to be angry, to doubt, to be bitter or alone, we will find them too.
However, if we seek joy—if we look for reasons to rejoice and to happily follow the Savior, we will find them.
We rarely find something we are not looking for.
Are you looking for joy?
Seek, and ye shall find.



Bear One Another’s Burdens

Jesus taught, “It is more blessed to give than to receive.”
Can it be that in our search for joy, the best way to find it is to bring joy to others?
Brothers and sisters, you know and I know this is true! Joy is like a barrel of flour or a jar of oil that will never run out. True joy multiplies when it is shared.
It doesn’t require something grand or complicated.
We can do simple things.
Like praying for someone with all our heart.
Giving a sincere compliment.
Helping someone feel welcome, respected, valued, and loved.
Sharing a favorite scripture and what it means to us.
Or even just by listening.
“When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God,” and God will repay your kindness generously. The joy you give to others will return to you in “good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over.”



“What Shall We Do Then?”

During the coming days, weeks, and months, may I invite you to:


Spend time in a sincere, full-hearted effort to draw near to God.


Seek diligently for everyday moments of hope, peace, and joy.


Bring joy to others around you.


My dear brothers and sisters, dear friends, as you search the word of God for a deeper understanding of God’s eternal plan, accept these invitations, and strive to walk in His Way, you will experience “the peace of God, which passeth all understanding,” even in the midst of sorrows. You will feel a greater measure of God’s unsurpassable love swelling within your heart. The dawn of celestial light will penetrate the shadows of your trials, and you will begin to taste the unspeakable glories and wonders of the unseen, perfect, heavenly sphere. You will feel your spirit lifting away from the gravity of this world.
And like good Milton Wright, perhaps you will raise your voice in rejoicing and shout, “Higher, Father, higher!”
May we all seek and find the higher joy that comes from devoting our lives to our Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son. This is my earnest prayer and blessing in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


John Gillespie Magee Jr., “High Flight,” poetryfoundation.org.


See Christopher Klein, “10 Things You May Not Know about the Wright Brothers,” History, Mar. 28, 2023, history.com.


Magee, “High Flight.”


Twenty-four hundred years ago, Aristotle observed that happiness is the one thing all humans desire most. In his treatise Nicomachean Ethics, he taught that the greatest good in life is the thing we pursue as an end itself (as opposed to those things we pursue that are a means to some other end). Happiness, above all else, is just such a thing. “We always desire happiness for its own sake,” he said, “and never as a means to something else” (The Nicomachean Ethics of Aristotle, trans. J. E. C. Weldon [1902], 13–14).


See Harry Enten, “American Happiness Hits Record Lows,” CNN, Feb. 2, 2022, cnn.com; Tamara Lush, “Poll: Americans Are the Unhappiest They’ve Been in 50 Years,” Associated Press, June 16, 2020, apnews.com; “The Great Gloom: In 2023, Employees Are Unhappier Than Ever. Why?” BambooHR, bamboohr.com.


See Wanda Mallette, Patti Ryan, and Bob Morrison, “Lookin’ for Love (in All the Wrong Places)” (1980).


2 Nephi 2:11.


See John 11:35; Moses 7:28–37.


See 2 Nephi 2:11.


See John 14:27.


John 10:10.


Luke 2:10, New Revised Standard Version.


See Matthew 11:28–30.


2 Nephi 2:25.


If you have any concerns about whether or not your Father in Heaven will accept you and allow you to receive His joy, I invite you to prayerfully read Christ’s parable of the prodigal son (see Luke 15:11–32). In that parable, we learn how our Heavenly Father feels about His children and how He awaits and celebrates our return after we have strayed from Him! From the moment we “come to ourselves” (see verse 17) and begin the journey home, He will see us, for He stands watching and waiting. And what is He waiting for? For us! As we draw near to Him, He will celebrate our return and call us His child.


Doctrine and Covenants 59:18. This revelation also explains, “It pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made” (verse 20).


To those who draw near to God, He gives this grand promise: “I will draw near unto you” (Doctrine and Covenants 88:63; see also James 4:8).


See Mark 5:24–34.


See Bible Dictionary, “Clean and unclean.”


Mark 5:28.


Matthew 7:7.


By bearing each other’s burdens, we “fulfil the law of Christ” (Galatians 6:2; see also Mosiah 18:8).


Acts 20:35.


See 1 Kings 17:8–16.


Mosiah 2:17.


In his Epistle to the Romans, Paul states that God “will render to every man according to his deeds: to them who by patient continuance in well doing seek for glory and honour and immortality, eternal life: … glory, honour, and peace, to every man that worketh good” (Romans 2:6–7, 10).


Luke 6:38. Our very salvation and eternal happiness may depend on our compassion and kindness to others (see Matthew 25:31–46).


Luke 3:10.


Philippians 4:7.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Words Matter","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Words Matter

By Elder Ronald A. Rasband
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Words set a tone. They voice our thoughts, feelings, and experiences, for good or bad.


Brothers, sisters, and friends across the world, I am honored to address this vast audience, many of whom are members of our Church and many of whom are friends and new listeners to this conference broadcast. Welcome!
The messages shared from this pulpit are communicated in words. They are given in English and translated into nearly 100 different languages. Always the base is the same. Words. And words matter a lot. Let me say that again. Words matter!
They are the bedrock of how we connect; they represent our beliefs, morals, and perspectives. Sometimes we speak words; other times we listen. Words set a tone. They voice our thoughts, feelings, and experiences, for good or bad.
Unfortunately, words can be thoughtless, hasty, and hurtful. Once said, we cannot take them back. They can wound, punish, cut down, and even lead to destructive actions. They can weigh heavily on us.
On the other hand, words can celebrate victory, be hopeful and encouraging. They can prompt us to rethink, reboot, and redirect our course. Words can open our minds to truth.
That is why, first and foremost, the Lord’s words matter.
In the Book of Mormon, the prophet Alma and his people in ancient America encountered endless warfare with those who had disregarded the word of God, hardened their hearts, and corrupted their culture. The faithful could have fought, but Alma counseled: “And now, as the preaching of the word had a great tendency to lead the people to do that which was just—yea, it had had more powerful effect upon the minds of the people than the sword, or anything else, which had happened unto them—therefore Alma thought it was expedient that they should try the virtue of the word of God.”
The “word of God” surpasses all other expressions. It has been so since the Creation of the earth when the Lord spoke: “Let there be light: and there was light.”
From the Savior came these assurances in the New Testament: “Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away.”
And this: “If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him.”
And from Mary, the mother of Jesus, came this humble testimony: “Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word.”
Believing and heeding the word of God will draw us closer to Him. President Russell M. Nelson has promised, “If you will study His words, your ability to be more like Him will increase.”
Don’t we all want to be, as the hymn says, “more blessed and holy—more, Savior, like thee”?
I picture young Joseph Smith on his knees hearing the words of his Father in Heaven: “[Joseph,] This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!”
We “hear Him” in the words of scripture, but do we let them just sit on the page, or do we recognize He is speaking to us? Do we change?

We “hear Him” in personal revelation and promptings from the Holy Ghost, in answers to prayer, and in those moments when only Jesus Christ, through the power of His Atonement, can lift our burdens, grant us forgiveness and peace, and embrace us “in the arms of his love.”
Second, the words of prophets matter.
Prophets testify of the divinity of Jesus Christ. They teach His gospel and show His love for all. I bear my witness that our living prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, hears and speaks the word of the Lord.
President Nelson has a way with words. He has said, “Keep on the covenant path,” “Gather Israel,” “Let God prevail,” “Build bridges of understanding,” “Give thanks,” “Increase your faith in Jesus Christ,” “Take charge of your testimony,” and “Become a peacemaker.”
Most recently, he has asked us to “think celestial.” “When you are confronted with a dilemma,” he said, “think celestial! When tested by temptation, think celestial! When life or loved ones let you down, think celestial! When someone dies prematurely, think celestial. … When the pressures of life crowd in upon you, think celestial! … As you think celestial, your heart will gradually change, … you will view trials and opposition in a new light, … [and] your faith will increase.”
When we think celestial, we see “things as they really are, and … really will be.” In this world burdened with confusion and contention, we all need that perspective.
Elder George Albert Smith, long before becoming President of the Church, spoke of sustaining the prophet and heeding his words. He said: “The obligation that we make when we raise our hands … is a most sacred one. … It means … that we will stand behind him; we will pray for him; … and we will strive to carry out his instructions as the Lord shall direct.” In other words, we will diligently act upon our prophet’s words.
As one of 15 prophets, seers, and revelators sustained yesterday by our worldwide Church, I want to share with you one of my experiences sustaining the prophet and embracing his words. It was for me much like the prophet Jacob, who recounted, “I had heard the voice of the Lord speaking unto me in very word.”

Last October my wife, Melanie, and I were in Bangkok, Thailand, as I was preparing to dedicate what would be the Church’s 185th temple. For me, the assignment was both surreal and humbling. This was the first temple on the Southeast Asia peninsula. It was masterfully designed—a six-story, nine-spired structure, “fitly framed” to be a house of the Lord. For months I had contemplated the dedication. What had settled in my soul and mind was that the country and the temple had been cradled in the arms of prophets and apostles. President Thomas S. Monson had announced the temple and President Nelson the dedication.

I had prepared the dedicatory prayer months earlier. Those sacred words had been translated into 12 languages. We were ready. Or so I thought.
The night before the dedication, I was awakened from my sleep with an unsettled, urgent feeling about the dedicatory prayer. I tried to set aside the prompting, thinking the prayer was in place. But the Spirit would not leave me alone. I sensed certain words were missing, and by divine design they came to me in revelation, and I inserted these words in the prayer near the end: “May we think celestial, letting Thy Spirit prevail in our lives, and strive to be peacemakers always.” The Lord was reminding me to heed the words of our living prophet: “Think celestial,” “let the Spirit prevail,” “strive to be peacemakers.” Words of the prophet matter to the Lord and to us.
Third, and so very important, are our own words. Believe me, in our emoji-filled world, our words matter.
Our words can be supportive or angry, joyful or mean, compassionate or tossed aside. In the heat of the moment, words can sting and sink painfully deep into the soul—and stay there. Our words on the internet, texting, social media, or tweets take on a life of their own. So be careful what you say and how you say it. In our families, especially with husbands, wives, and children, our words can bring us together or drive a wedge between us.
Let me suggest three simple phrases that we can use to take the sting out of difficulties and differences, lift, and reassure each other:
“Thank you.”
“I am sorry.”
And “I love you.”
Do not save these humble phrases for a special event or catastrophe. Use them often and sincerely, for they show regard for others. Talk is growing cheap; do not follow that pattern.
We can say “thank you” on the elevator, in the parking lot, at the market, in the office, in a queue, or with our neighbors or friends. We can say “I am sorry” when we make a mistake, miss a meeting, forget a birthday, or see someone in pain. We can say “I love you,” and those words carry the message “I am thinking about you,” “I care about you,” “I am here for you,” or “You are everything to me.”
Let me share a personal example. Husbands, take heed. Sisters, this is going to help you too. Before my full-time assignment in the Church, I traveled widely for my company. I was gone a fair amount of time to far reaches of the world. At the end of my day, no matter where I was, I always called home. When my wife, Melanie, picked up the phone and I reported in, our conversation always led us to expressing “I love you.” Every day, those words served as an anchor to my soul and my conduct; they were a protection to me from evil designs. “Melanie, I love you” spoke of the precious trust between us.
President Thomas S. Monson used to say, “There are feet to steady, hands to grasp, minds to encourage, hearts to inspire, and souls to save.” Saying “thank you,” “I am sorry,” “I love you” will do just that.
Brothers and sisters, words do matter.
I promise that if we “feast upon the words of Christ” that lead to salvation, our prophet’s words that guide and encourage us, and our own words that speak of who we are and what we hold dear, the powers of heaven will pour down upon us. “The words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do.” We are Heavenly Father’s children and He is our God, and He expects us to speak with “the tongue of angels” by the power of the Holy Ghost.
I love the Lord Jesus Christ. He is, in the words of the Old Testament prophet Isaiah, “Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.” And as the Apostle John made clear, Jesus Christ Himself is “the Word.”
Of this I testify as an Apostle called to the Lord’s divine service—to declare His word—and called to stand as a special witness of Him. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Alma 31:5.


Genesis 1:3.


Matthew 24:35.


John 14:23.


Luke 1:38.


Russell M. Nelson, “I Studied More Than 2,200 Scriptures about the Savior in Six Weeks: Here Is a Little of What I Learned,” Inspiration (blog), Feb. 28, 2017, ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


“More Holiness Give Me,” Hymns, no. 131.


Joseph Smith—History 1:17.


The prophet Lehi describes “the arms of his love” in his declaration to his sons: “But behold, the Lord hath redeemed my soul from hell; I have beheld his glory, and I am encircled about eternally in the arms of his love” (2 Nephi 1:15).


President Russell M. Nelson said, “Prophets testify of Jesus Christ—of His divinity and of His earthly mission and ministry” (“Sustaining the Prophets,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2014, 74).


Russell M. Nelson, “As We Go Forward Together,” Ensign or Liahona, Apr. 2018, 7.


Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel” (worldwide youth devotional, June 3, 2018), Gospel Library.


Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” Liahona, Nov. 2020, 92.


Russell M. Nelson, “President Nelson Shares Social Post about Racism and Calls for Respect for Human Dignity,” June 1, 2020, newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


Russell M. Nelson, in Sarah Jane Weaver, “President Nelson Invites Us to #GiveThanks,” Church News, Nov. 20, 2020, thechurchnews.com.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 98.


Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022), Gospel Library.


Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 99; see also facebook.com/reel/277880588051925.


Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 118–19.


Jacob 4:13.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: George Albert Smith (2011), 64.


Jacob 7:5.


The Bangkok Thailand Temple was dedicated on October 22, 2023.


The temple district reaches beyond Thailand’s borders, spanning Cambodia to Pakistan, Nepal to Indonesia.


Ephesians 2:21.


See Thomas S. Monson, “Blessings of the Temple,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2015, 91.


See “News for Temples in Five Nations,” Mar. 27, 2023, newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See dedicatory prayer for the Bangkok Thailand Temple, temples.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


An emoji, often a little yellow face, is a pictogram embedded in an electronic message to convey a feeling, expression, or idea.


Thomas S. Monson, “To the Rescue,” Ensign, May 2001, 48; Liahona, July 2001, 57.


2 Nephi 32:3.


2 Nephi 32:3.


2 Nephi 32:2.


Nephi wrote, “For when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the children of men” (2 Nephi 33:1).


Isaiah 9:6.


John 1:1.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Pray, He Is There","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Pray, He Is There

By President Susan H. Porter
Primary General President

I invite you to pray to know Heavenly Father is there, pray to grow to become like Him, and pray to show His love to others.


Brothers and sisters, I feel joy as I respond to an impression to speak to children!
Girls and boys, wherever you are in the world, I want to share something with you.
Our Heavenly Father loves you! You are His child. He knows you. He wants to bless you. I pray with all my heart that you will feel His love.
Do you like to receive gifts? I want to talk to you about a very special gift that Heavenly Father has given to you to help you. It is the gift of prayer. What a blessing prayer is! We can talk to Heavenly Father anytime, anywhere.

When Jesus was on the earth, He taught us to pray. He said, “Ask, and ye shall receive.”
What gifts can you pray for? There are many, but today I want to share three:


Pray to know.


Pray to grow.


Pray to show.


Let’s talk about each one.


First, Pray to Know

What do you need to know?
There is a song about prayer that Primary children sing all over the world. It starts with a question. Do you know what song it is? If I were really brave, I would sing it to you!
“Heavenly Father, are you really there? And do you hear and answer ev’ry child’s prayer?”
How can you know that Heavenly Father is really there, even when you can’t see Him?
President Russell M. Nelson has invited you to “pour out your heart to your Heavenly Father. … And then listen!” Listen to what you feel in your heart and to thoughts that come to your mind.
Heavenly Father has a glorified body of flesh and bones and is the Father of your spirit. Because Heavenly Father has all power and knows all things, He can see all His children and can hear and answer every prayer. You can come to know for yourself that He is there and that He loves you.
When you know that Heavenly Father is real and that He loves you, you can live with courage and hope! “Pray, he is there; speak, he is list’ning.”
Have you ever felt alone? One day when our granddaughter Ashley was six years old, she was the only one without a friend to play with on the school playground. As she stood there, feeling unimportant and unseen, a specific thought came into her mind: “Wait! I’m not alone! I have Christ!” Ashley knelt down right in the middle of the playground, folded her arms, and prayed to Heavenly Father. The moment she opened her eyes, a girl her age was standing there asking her if she wanted to play. Ashley came to know, “We are important to the Lord, and we are never truly alone.”
Sometimes you may want to know why something hard is happening in your life or why you didn’t receive a blessing you prayed for. Often the best question to ask Heavenly Father is not why but what.
Do you remember when Nephi and his family were hungry while they were traveling in the wilderness? When Nephi and his brothers went to hunt for food, Nephi broke his bow. But he didn’t ask why.

Nephi made a new bow and asked his father, Lehi, where he could go to get food. Lehi prayed, and the Lord showed them where Nephi could go. Heavenly Father will guide you when you ask Him what you can do and what you can learn.



Second, Pray to Grow

Heavenly Father wants to help you grow! He loves us so much that He sent His Son, Jesus Christ, to show us the way to live. Jesus suffered, died, and was resurrected so we can be forgiven of our sins and grow to become more like Him.
Do you want to grow in patience or in honesty? Do you want to grow in a skill? Maybe you are shy and want to grow in courage. “Pray, he is there”! Through His Spirit, your heart can change, and you can receive strength.
My new friend Jonah wrote: “I often feel nervous on my way to school in the morning. I worry about things like being late, forgetting something, and taking tests. When I was 10, I started saying prayers on my drive to school with my mom. I ask for the help I need, and I pray for my family too. I also think of the things I’m grateful for. [Praying to Heavenly Father has] helped me. Sometimes I don’t feel the relief right as I get out of the car, but by the time I’m at my classroom, I feel peaceful.”
Jonah’s faith is growing as he prays every day and then moves forward.



Third, Pray to Show

You can pray for help to show Heavenly Father’s love to others. Through His Spirit, Heavenly Father will help you notice someone who is sad so you can comfort them. He can help you show His love by forgiving someone. He can give you courage to serve someone and share with them that they are a child of God. You can help others come to know and love Jesus and Heavenly Father as you do.
For my whole life I prayed that my father would become a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Even as a young girl, I knew how many blessings he could receive. Our family could receive the blessings of being sealed for eternity. My family, friends, and I prayed often for him, but he didn’t join the Church. Heavenly Father does not force anyone to make a choice. He can send us answers to our prayers in other ways.

When I was old enough, I received my patriarchal blessing. In the blessing, the patriarch told me the best thing I could do to help my family be together in heaven was to be an example of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That’s what I could do!
My father lived to be 86. Five days after he died, I received a sacred feeling of joy. Heavenly Father let me know through His Spirit that my father wanted to receive the blessings of the gospel of Jesus Christ! I will never forget the day I knelt around the altar in the temple with my sister and brothers to be sealed to my parents. I had started praying for this blessing when I was in Primary, and I received it when I was a grandmother.
Perhaps you are praying for blessings for your family and others you love. Don’t give up! Heavenly Father will show you what you can do.
Share with Heavenly Father what is in your heart. As you sincerely ask for His help, you will receive His Spirit to guide you. Praying every day will fill you with love for Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ. This will help you want to follow Them your whole life!
Imagine what would happen if all the children in Africa, South America, Asia, Europe, North America, and Australia prayed every day. The whole world would be blessed with more of God’s love!


I invite you to pray to know Heavenly Father is there, pray to grow to become like Him, and pray to show His love to others. I know He lives and loves you. “Pray, he is there.” In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


John 16:24; see also 3 Nephi 27:29.


“A Child’s Prayer,” Children’s Songbook, 12.


Russell M. Nelson, “Revelation for the Church, Revelation for Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 95.


See Doctrine and Covenants 11:13.


See Moses 1:6–8, 27–29, 35.


“A Child’s Prayer,” 12.


See 1 Nephi 16:18, 23–24.


See John 3:16–17.


“A Child’s Prayer,” 12.


Personal correspondence.


See John 13:34–35.


See Alma 20:26–27; 22.


See 2 Nephi 2:27; Helaman 14:30.


See Mosiah 24:12; Alma 37:37.


See Doctrine and Covenants 19:38.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Powerful, Virtuous Cycle of the Doctrine of Christ","year":"2024","month":"04"}



The Powerful, Virtuous Cycle of the Doctrine of Christ

By Elder Dale G. Renlund
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

I invite you to live the doctrine of Christ repeatedly, iteratively, and intentionally and help others on their way.


Years ago, my wife, Ruth; our daughter, Ashley; and I joined other tourists on a kayaking excursion in the state of Hawaii in the United States. A kayak is a low-to-the-water, canoe-like boat in which the rower sits facing forward and uses a double-bladed paddle to pull front to back on one side and then on the other. The plan was to row to two small islands off the coast of Oahu and back again. I was confident because, as a young man, I had paddled kayaks across mountain lakes. Hubris never bodes well, does it?
Our guide gave us instructions and showed us the ocean kayaks we would use. They differed from the ones I had previously paddled. I was supposed to sit on top of the kayak, instead of down inside it. When I got onto the kayak, my center of gravity was higher than I was accustomed to, and I was less stable in the water.
As we started out, I rowed faster than Ruth and Ashley. After a while, I was far ahead of them. Though proud of my heroic pace, I stopped paddling and waited for them to catch up. A large wave—about 13 centimeters—hit the side of my kayak and flipped me over into the water. By the time I had turned the kayak upright and struggled to get back on top, Ruth and Ashley had passed me by, but I was too winded to resume paddling. Before I could catch my breath, another wave, this one truly enormous—at least 20 centimeters—hit my kayak and flipped me over again. By the time I managed to right the kayak, I was so out of breath I feared I would not be able to climb on top.
Seeing my situation, the guide rowed over and steadied my kayak, making it easier for me to climb on top. When he saw that I was still too breathless to row on my own, he hitched a towrope to my kayak and began paddling, pulling me along with him. Soon I caught my breath and began paddling adequately on my own. He let go of the rope, and I reached the first island without further assistance. Upon arrival, I flopped down on the sand, exhausted.
After the group had rested, the guide quietly said to me, “Mr. Renlund, if you just keep paddling, maintaining your momentum, I think you’re going to be fine.” I followed his advice as we paddled to the second island and then back to our starting point. Twice the guide rowed by and told me I was doing great. Even larger waves hit my kayak from the side, but I was not flipped over.
By consistently paddling the kayak, I maintained momentum and forward progress, mitigating the effect of waves hitting me from the side. The same principle applies in our spiritual lives. We become vulnerable when we slow down and especially when we stop. If we maintain spiritual momentum by continually “rowing” toward the Savior, we are safer and more secure because our eternal life depends on our faith in Him.
Spiritual momentum is created “over a lifetime as we repeatedly embrace the doctrine of Christ.” Doing so, President Russell M. Nelson taught, produces a “powerful virtuous cycle.” Indeed, the elements of the doctrine of Christ—such as faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, entering a covenant relationship with the Lord through baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end—are not intended to be experienced as one-time, check-the-box events. In particular, “enduring to the end” is not really a separate step in the doctrine of Christ—as though we complete the first four elements and then hunker down, grit our teeth, and wait to die. No, enduring to the end is repeatedly and iteratively applying the other elements of the doctrine of Christ, creating the “powerful virtuous cycle” that President Nelson described.
Repeatedly means that we experience the elements of the doctrine of Christ over and over throughout our lives. Iteratively means that we build on and improve with each repetition. Even though we repeat the elements, we are not just spinning in circles without a forward trajectory. Instead, we draw closer to Jesus Christ each time through the cycle.
Momentum involves both speed and direction. If I had paddled the kayak vigorously in the wrong direction, I could have created significant momentum, but I would not have reached the intended destination. Similarly, in life, we need to “row” toward the Savior to come unto Him.
Our faith in Jesus Christ needs to be nourished daily. It is nourished as we pray daily, study the scriptures daily, reflect on the goodness of God daily, repent daily, and follow the promptings of the Holy Ghost daily. Just as it is not healthy to defer eating all our food until Sunday and then binge our weekly allotment of nutrition, it is not spiritually healthy to restrict our testimony-nourishing behavior to one day in the week.
When we assume responsibility for our own testimonies, we gain spiritual momentum and gradually develop bedrock faith in Jesus Christ, and the doctrine of Christ becomes central to the purpose of life. Momentum likewise builds as we strive to obey the laws of God and repent. Repentance is joyful and allows us to learn from our mistakes, which is how we progress eternally. We will undoubtedly have times when we flip over in our kayaks and find ourselves in deep water. Through repentance, we can get back on top and continue, no matter how many times we have fallen off. The important part is that we do not give up.
The next element of the doctrine of Christ is baptism, which includes the baptism of water and, through confirmation, the baptism of the Holy Ghost. While baptism is a singular event, we renew our baptismal covenant repeatedly when we partake of the sacrament. The sacrament does not replace baptism, but it links the initial elements in the doctrine of Christ—faith and repentance—with reception of the Holy Ghost. As we conscientiously partake of the sacrament, we invite the Holy Ghost into our lives, just like when we were baptized and confirmed. As we keep the covenant described in the sacrament prayers, the Holy Ghost becomes our companion.
As the Holy Ghost exerts a greater influence in our lives, we progressively and iteratively develop Christlike attributes. Our hearts change. Our disposition to do evil diminishes. Our inclination to do good increases until we only want “to do good continually.” And we thereby access the heavenly power needed to endure to the end. Our faith has increased, and we are ready to repeat the powerful, virtuous cycle again.
Forward spiritual momentum also propels us to make additional covenants with God in the house of the Lord. Multiple covenants draw us closer to Christ and connect us more strongly to Him. Through these covenants, we have greater access to His power. To be clear, baptismal and temple covenants are not, in and of themselves, the source of power. The source of power is the Lord Jesus Christ and our Heavenly Father. Making and keeping covenants create a conduit for Their power in our lives. As we live according to these covenants, we eventually become inheritors to all that Heavenly Father has. The momentum produced by living the doctrine of Christ not only powers the transformation of our divine nature into our eternal destiny but also motivates us to help others in appropriate ways.
Consider how the expedition guide helped me after I flipped over in the kayak. He did not shout from afar an unhelpful question such as, “Mr. Renlund, what are you doing in the water?” He did not paddle up and chide me, saying, “Mr. Renlund, you would not be in this situation if you were more physically fit.” He did not start towing my kayak while I was just trying to get on top of it. And he did not correct me in front of the group. Instead, he gave me the help I needed at the time I needed it. He gave me advice when I was receptive. And he went out of his way to encourage me.
As we minister to others, we do not need to ask unhelpful questions or state the obvious. Most people who are struggling know that they are struggling. We should not be judgmental; our judgment is neither helpful nor welcome, and it is most often ill-informed.
Comparing ourselves to others can lead us to make pernicious errors, especially if we conclude that we are more righteous than those who are struggling. Such a comparison is like drowning hopelessly in three meters of water, seeing someone else drowning in four meters of water, judging him a greater sinner, and feeling good about yourself. After all, we are all struggling in our own way. None of us earns salvation. We never can. Jacob, in the Book of Mormon, taught, “Remember, after [we] are reconciled unto God, that it is only in and through the grace of God that [we] are saved.” We all need the Savior’s infinite Atonement, not just part of it.
We do need all our compassion, empathy, and love as we interact with those around us. Those who are struggling “need to experience the pure love of Jesus Christ reflected in [our] words and actions.” As we minister, we encourage others frequently and offer help. Even if someone is not receptive, we continue to minister as they allow. The Savior taught that “unto such shall ye continue to minister; for ye know not but what they will return and repent, and come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I shall heal them; and ye shall be the means of bringing salvation unto them.” The Savior’s job is to heal. Our job is to love—to love and minister in such a way that others are drawn to Jesus Christ. This is one of the fruits of the powerful, virtuous cycle of the doctrine of Christ.
I invite you to live the doctrine of Christ repeatedly, iteratively, and intentionally and help others on their way. I testify that the doctrine of Christ is central to Heavenly Father’s plan; it is, after all, His doctrine. As we exercise faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, we are propelled along the covenant path and motivated to help others become faithful disciples of Jesus Christ. We can become heirs in Heavenly Father’s kingdom, which is the culmination of faithfully living the doctrine of Christ. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Only about five inches.


Only about eight inches.


In physics, momentum = mass × velocity. When we stop, the velocity is zero. Therefore, the product of mass and velocity becomes zero, regardless of our prior momentum or the mass.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 98. President Nelson counseled, “We have never needed positive spiritual momentum more than we do now.” That’s the best way to move “forward amid … fear and uncertainty.” See also 2 Nephi 2:6–7; 9:23–24.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 97.


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World,” 97.


The phrase “the doctrine of Christ” means the same as the phrase “the gospel of Jesus Christ.” See 2 Nephi 31:2–21; 3 Nephi 9:14–22; 11:7–41; 27:1–21.


Disengaging from any of the elements in the doctrine of Christ slows or stops our spiritual momentum. See 2 Nephi 28:30; Alma 12:10–11; Doctrine and Covenants 20:31–34; 50:24.


In physics, momentum = mass × velocity. Velocity is the speed in combination with the direction of motion of an object. Velocity is a vector and is inherently directional.


See 2 Nephi 2:6–7; 9:23–24.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” 99.


See Colossians 2:6–7.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World,” 97. Underlining the importance of our testimonies in maintaining spiritual momentum, the statement by President Nelson to take charge of our testimonies was also quoted by President M. Russell Ballard (see “Follow Jesus Christ with Footsteps of Faith,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 35) and Elder Quentin L. Cook (see “Be True to God and His Work,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 120).


See “The Restoration of the Fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ: A Bicentennial Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library; Russell M. Nelson, “A Plea to My Sisters,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2015, 97.


See Mosiah 26:30; Alma 34:31; Moroni 6:8; Doctrine and Covenants 58:42.


See 2 Nephi 31:13.


Elder James E. Talmage wrote, “In the course of our study of the principles and ordinances of the Gospel, as specified in the fourth of the Articles of Faith, the subject of the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper very properly claims attention, the observance of this ordinance being required of all who have become members of the Church of Christ through compliance with the requirements of faith, repentance, and baptism by water and of the Holy Ghost” (The Articles of Faith, 12th ed. [1924], 171).


See Doctrine and Covenants 59:9.


See Dallin H. Oaks, “Special Witnesses of Christ,” Ensign, Apr. 2001, 13; Liahona, Apr. 2001, 14.


Mosiah 5:2.


See, for instance, 2 Nephi 31:2–21; 3 Nephi 11:23–31; 27:13–21; Moroni 4:3; 5:2; 6:6; Doctrine and Covenants 20:77, 79; 59:8–9.


See Doctrine and Covenants 14:7; 84:33–38.


About 10 feet.


About 13 feet.


See Ephesians 2:8–9.


2 Nephi 10:24.


President Jeffrey R. Holland taught: “When a battered, weary swimmer tries valiantly to get back to shore, after having fought strong winds and rough waves which he should never have challenged in the first place, those of us who might have had better judgment, or perhaps just better luck, ought not to row out to his side, beat him with our oars, and shove his head back underwater. That’s not what boats were made for. But some of us do that to each other” (“A Robe, a Ring, and a Fatted Calf” [Brigham Young University devotional, Jan. 31, 1984], 5, speeches.byu.edu).


Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 100.


3 Nephi 18:32.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Trust in the Lord","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Trust in the Lord

By Elder Paul B. Pieper
Of the Seventy

Our relationship with God will grow only to the degree we are willing to place our trust in Him.


In our family, we sometimes play a game we call “The Crazy Trust Exercise.” You may have played it too. Two people stand a few feet apart, one with their back toward the other. On a signal from the person behind, the person in front falls backward into the waiting arms of their friend.
Trust is the foundation of all relationships. A threshold question to any relationship is “Can I trust the other person?” A relationship forms only when people are willing to place trust in each other. It is not a relationship if one person trusts completely but the other does not.
Each of us is a beloved spirit son or daughter of a loving Heavenly Father. But while that spiritual genealogy provides a foundation, it does not of itself create a meaningful relationship with God. A relationship can be built only when we choose to trust in Him.
Heavenly Father desires to build a close, personal relationship with each of His spirit children. Jesus expressed that desire when He prayed, “That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us.” The relationship God seeks with each spirit child is one so close and personal that He will be able to share all He has and all He is. That kind of deep, enduring relationship can develop only when built upon perfect, total trust.
For His part, Heavenly Father has worked from the beginning to communicate His absolute trust in the divine potential of each of His children. Trust underlies the plan He presented for our growth and progression prior to our coming to earth. He would teach us eternal laws, create an earth, provide us with mortal bodies, give us the gift to choose for ourselves, and permit us to learn and grow by making our own choices. He wants us to choose to follow His laws and return to enjoy eternal life with Him and His Son.
Knowing that we would not always make good choices, He also prepared a way for us to escape from the consequences of bad choices. He provided us a Savior—His Son, Jesus Christ—to atone for our sins and make us clean again on condition of repentance. He invites us to use the precious gift of repentance regularly.
Every parent knows how difficult it is to trust a child enough to let them make their own decisions, especially when the parent knows the child is likely to make mistakes and suffer as a result. Yet Heavenly Father allows us to make the choices that will help us reach our divine potential! As Elder Dale G. Renlund taught, “[His] goal in parenting is not to have His children do what is right; it is to have His children choose to do what is right and ultimately become like Him.”
Notwithstanding God’s trust in us, our relationship with Him will grow only to the degree we are willing to place our trust in Him. The challenge is that we live in a fallen world and have all experienced a betrayal of trust as the result of dishonesty, manipulation, coercion, or other circumstances. Once betrayed, we may struggle to trust again. These negative trust experiences with imperfect mortals may even impact our willingness to trust in a perfect Heavenly Father.
Several years ago, two friends of mine, Leonid and Valentina, expressed interest in becoming members of the Church. As Leonid began to learn the gospel, he found it difficult to pray. Earlier in his life, Leonid had suffered from manipulation and control by superiors and had developed a distrust of authority. These experiences affected his ability to open his heart and express personal feelings to Heavenly Father. With time and study, Leonid gained a better understanding of God’s character and experienced feeling God’s love. Eventually, prayer became a natural way for him to express thanks and the love he was feeling for God. His increasing trust in God eventually led him and Valentina to enter into sacred covenants to strengthen their relationship with God and each other.
If prior loss of trust is keeping you from trusting God, please follow Leonid’s example. Patiently continue to learn more about Heavenly Father, His character, His attributes, and His purposes. Look for and record experiences feeling His love and power in your life. Our living prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, has taught that the more we learn about God, the easier it will be for us to trust Him.
Sometimes the best way to learn to trust God is simply by trusting Him. Like “The Crazy Trust Exercise,” sometimes we just need to be willing to fall backward and let Him catch us. Our mortal life is a test. Challenges that stretch us beyond our own capacity come frequently. When our own knowledge and understanding are inadequate, we naturally look for resources to help us. In an information-saturated world, there is no shortage of sources promoting their solutions to our challenges. However, the simple, time-tested counsel in Proverbs provides the best advice: “Trust in the Lord with all thine heart.” We show our trust in God by turning to Him first when confronted with life’s challenges.
After I finished law school in Utah, our family faced the important decision of where to work and make our home. After counseling with each other and the Lord, we felt directed to move our family to the eastern United States, far from parents and siblings. Initially, things went well, and we felt confirmed in our decision. But then things changed. There was downsizing at the law firm, and I faced the prospect of no job or insurance at the very time our daughter Dora was born with serious medical challenges and long-term special needs. While confronting these challenges, I was extended a call to serve that would require significant time and commitment.
I had never faced such a challenge and was overwhelmed. I began to question the decision we had made and its accompanying confirmation. We had trusted in the Lord, and things were supposed to work out. I had fallen backward, and it now appeared that no one was going to catch me.
One day the words “Don’t ask why; ask what I want you to learn” came distinctly into my mind and heart. Now I was even more confused. In the very moment I was struggling with my earlier decision, God was inviting me to trust Him even more. Looking back, this was a critical point in my life—it was the moment when I realized that the best way to learn to trust in God was simply by trusting Him. In the subsequent weeks, I watched with amazement as the Lord miraculously unfolded His plan to bless our family.
Good teachers and coaches know that intellectual growth and physical strength can happen only when minds and muscles are stretched. Likewise, God invites us to grow by trusting His spiritual tutoring through soul-stretching experiences. Therefore, we can be sure that whatever trust we may have demonstrated in God in the past, another trust-stretching experience lies yet ahead. God is focused on our growth and progress. He is the Master Teacher, the complete coach who is always stretching us to help us realize more of our divine potential. That will always include a future invitation to trust Him just a little bit more.
The Book of Mormon teaches the pattern God uses to stretch us in order to build strong relationships with us. In Come, Follow Me, we recently studied about how Nephi’s trust in God was tested when he and his brothers were commanded to return to Jerusalem to obtain the brass plates. After their initial attempts failed, his brothers gave up and were ready to return without the plates. But Nephi chose to place his complete trust in the Lord and was successful in obtaining the plates. That experience likely strengthened Nephi’s confidence in God when his bow broke and the family was facing starvation in the wilderness. Again, Nephi chose to trust in God, and the family was saved. These successive experiences gave Nephi even stronger confidence in God for the enormous, trust-stretching task he would soon face of building a ship.
Through these experiences, Nephi strengthened his relationship with God by consistently and continuously trusting Him. God uses the same pattern with us. He extends us personal invitations to strengthen and deepen our trust in Him. Each time we accept and act on an invitation, our trust in God grows. If we ignore or decline an invitation, our progress stops until we’re ready to act on a new invitation.
The good news is that regardless of the trust we may or may not have chosen to place in God in the past, we can choose to trust God today and every day going forward. I promise that each time we do, God will be there to catch us, and our relationship of trust will grow stronger and stronger until the day that we become one with Him and His Son. Then we can declare like Nephi, “O Lord, I have trusted in thee, and I will trust in thee forever.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See “The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library.


See Doctrine and Covenants 88:63.


John 17:21.


See Doctrine and Covenants 84:38.


See Alma 34:15–17.


“Nothing is more liberating, more ennobling, or more crucial to our individual progression than is a regular, daily focus on repentance. Repentance is not an event; it is a process” (Russell M. Nelson, “We Can Do Better and Be Better,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 67).


Dale G. Renlund, “Choose You This Day,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 104.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Christ Is Risen; Faith in Him Will Move Mountains,” Liahona, May 2021, 103.


Proverbs 3:5.


See 1 Nephi 3–4.


See 1 Nephi 16:18–31.


See 1 Nephi 17:8.


God’s personal invitations to each of us come through reading the scriptures, from living prophets, and by the whisperings of the Holy Ghost.


2 Nephi 4:34.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"God’s Intent Is to Bring You Home","year":"2024","month":"04"}



God’s Intent Is to Bring You Home

By Elder Patrick Kearon
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Everything about the Father’s plan for His beloved children is designed to bring everyone home.


I would like to express gratitude for your prayers as I have started the process of adjusting to the call, through President Nelson, to serve as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. You can probably well imagine how humbling this has felt, and it has been a time of extraordinary upheaval and sobering self-examination. It is, however, indeed a great honour to serve the Saviour, in any capacity, and to be engaged with you in sharing the good news of His gospel of hope.
Beyond that, it has been said that behind every new Apostle stands an astonished mother-in-law. I don’t know if that has actually been said, but in this case, it certainly could be. And I suspect that the fact that my mother-in-law is no longer with us does nothing to reduce her astonishment.
Several months ago, when my wife and I were visiting another country for various Church assignments, I woke up early one morning and looked blearily outside our hotel window. Down below on the busy street, I saw that a roadblock had been set up with a policeman stationed nearby to turn cars around as they reached the barrier. At first, only a few cars traveled along the road and were turned back. But as time went by and traffic increased, queues of cars began to build up.
From the window above, I watched as the policeman seemed to take satisfaction in his power to block the flow of traffic and turn people away. In fact, he seemed to develop a spring in his step, as if he might start doing a little jig, as each car approached the barrier. If a driver got frustrated about the roadblock, the policeman did not appear helpful or sympathetic. He just shook his head repeatedly and pointed in the opposite direction.
My friends, my fellow disciples on the road of mortal life, our Father’s beautiful plan, even His “fabulous” plan, is designed to bring you home, not to keep you out. No one has built a roadblock and stationed someone there to turn you around and send you away. In fact, it is the exact opposite. God is in relentless pursuit of you. He “wants all of His children to choose to return to Him,” and He employs every possible measure to bring you back.
Our loving Father oversaw the Creation of this very earth for the express purpose of providing an opportunity for you and for me to have the stretching and refining experiences of mortality, the chance to use our God-given moral agency to choose Him, to learn and grow, to make mistakes, to repent, to love God and our neighbour, and to one day return home to Him.
He sent His precious Beloved Son to this fallen world to live the full range of the human experience, to provide an example for the rest of His children to follow, and to atone and redeem. Christ’s great atoning gift removes every roadblock of physical and spiritual death that would separate us from our eternal home.
Everything about the Father’s plan for His beloved children is designed to bring everyone home.
What do God’s messengers, His prophets, call this plan in Restoration scripture? They call it the plan of redemption, the plan of mercy, the great plan of happiness, and the plan of salvation, which is unto all, “through the blood of mine Only Begotten.”
The intent of the Father’s great plan of happiness is your happiness, right here, right now, and in the eternities. It is not to prevent your happiness and cause you instead worry and fear.

The intent of the Father’s plan of redemption is in fact your redemption, your being rescued through the sufferings and death of Jesus Christ, freed from the captivity of sin and death. It is not to leave you as you are.
The intent of the Father’s plan of mercy is to extend mercy as you turn back to Him and honour your covenant of fidelity to Him. It is not to deny mercy and inflict pain and sorrow.
The intent of the Father’s plan of salvation is in fact your salvation in the celestial kingdom of glory as you receive “the testimony of Jesus” and offer your whole soul to Him. It is not to keep you out.
Does this mean anything goes with regard to how we live our lives? That the way we choose to use our agency doesn’t matter? That we can take or leave God’s commandments? No, of course not. Surely one of Jesus’s most consistent invitations and pleas during His mortal ministry was that we change and repent and come unto Him. Fundamentally implicit in all of His teachings to live on a higher plane of moral conduct is a call to personal progression, to transformative faith in Christ, to a mighty change of heart.
God wants for us a radical reorientation of our selfish and prideful impulses, the eviction of the natural man, for us to “go, and sin no more.”
If we believe the intent of the Father’s all-reaching plan is to save us, redeem us, extend mercy to us, and thereby bring us happiness, what is the intent of the Son through whom this great plan is brought about?
The Son tells us Himself: “For I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me.”
Jesus’s will is the benevolent Father’s will! He wants to make it possible for every last one of His Father’s children to receive the end goal of the plan—eternal life with Them. None is excluded from this divine potential.
If you are prone to worry that you will never measure up, or that the loving reach of Christ’s infinite Atonement mercifully covers everyone else but not you, then you misunderstand. Infinite means infinite. Infinite covers you and those you love.
Nephi explains this beautiful truth: “He doeth not anything save it be for the benefit of the world; for he loveth the world, even that he layeth down his own life that he may draw all men unto him. Wherefore, he commandeth none that they shall not partake of his salvation.”
The Saviour, the Good Shepherd, goes in search of His lost sheep until He finds them. He is “not willing that any should perish.”
“Mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive.”
“Have ye any that are sick among you? Bring them hither. Have ye any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or leprous, or that are withered, or that are deaf, or that are afflicted in any manner? Bring them hither and I will heal them, for I have compassion upon you.”
He did not cast away the woman with the issue of blood; He did not recoil from the leper; He did not reject the woman taken in adultery; He did not refuse the penitent—no matter their sin. And He will not refuse you or those you love when you bring to Him your broken hearts and contrite spirits. That is not His intent or His design, nor His plan, purpose, wish, or hope.
No, He does not put up roadblocks and barriers; He removes them. He does not keep you out; He welcomes you in. His entire ministry was a living declaration of this intent.
Then of course there is His atoning sacrifice itself, which is harder for us to understand, beyond our mortal capacity to comprehend. But, and this is an important “but,” we do understand, can comprehend, the holy, saving intent of His atoning sacrifice.
The veil of the temple was rent in twain when Jesus died upon the cross, symbolising that access back to the presence of the Father had been ripped wide open—to all who will turn to Him, trust Him, cast their burdens on Him, and take His yoke upon them in a covenant bond.
In other words, the Father’s plan is not about roadblocks. It never was; it never will be. Are there things we need to do, commandments to keep, aspects of our natures to change? Yes. But with His grace, those are within our reach, not beyond our grasp.
This is the good news! I am unspeakably grateful for these simple truths. The Father’s design, His plan, His purpose, His intent, His wish, and His hope are all to heal you, all to give you peace, all to bring you, and those you love, home. Of this I am a witness in the name of Jesus Christ, His Son, amen.


Notes


Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 117, 118.


See 2 Nephi 26:25, 27.


General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1.1, Gospel Library.


See Moses 7:33.


See Jacob 6:8; Alma 12:30.


See Alma 42:15.


See Alma 42:8, 16.


Moses 6:62.


See Doctrine and Covenants 45:4.


See Doctrine and Covenants 76:50–70.


See Omni 1:26.


See Matthew 4:17.


See Matthew 5–7. For example, in Matthew 5:43–44, the Savior taught His disciples that it was not enough to “love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy.” To follow Him, they also needed to “love [their] enemies.”


See Mosiah 5:2. In order for the mercy of Jesus Christ to be able to come into play in our lives, we must turn back to Him. Alma the Younger teaches that this glorious “plan of redemption could not be brought about, only on conditions of repentance … ; for except it were for these conditions, mercy could not take effect” (Alma 42:13).


See Mosiah 3:19.


John 8:11.


John 6:38.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Atonement,” Ensign, Nov. 1996, 35: “His Atonement is infinite—without an end. It was also infinite in that all humankind would be saved from never-ending death. It was infinite in terms of His immense suffering. It was infinite in time, putting an end to the preceding prototype of animal sacrifice. It was infinite in scope—it was to be done once for all. And the mercy of the Atonement extends not only to an infinite number of people, but also to an infinite number of worlds created by Him. It was infinite beyond any human scale of measurement or mortal comprehension.”


2 Nephi 26:24.


See Luke 15:4.


2 Peter 3:9; see also Doctrine and Covenants 18:11–12.


3 Nephi 9:14.


3 Nephi 17:7; see also verse 6.


In Jesus Christ’s teachings indicating that some individuals will not inherit the kingdom of heaven, He makes it clear that this outcome is not His desire for them but is a result of their own choices (see Matthew 7:13–14, 21–25).


See Matthew 27:50–51; Hebrews 9:6–12.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Swallowed Up in the Joy of Christ","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Swallowed Up in the Joy of Christ

By Elder Brian K. Taylor
Of the Seventy

I testify that our Heavenly Father hears your tearful pleadings and will always respond in perfect wisdom.


We love you, Elder Kearon. May I borrow that accent for 10 minutes?


Yearned-for Miracles

In the New Testament we learn of blind Bartimaeus, who cried out to Jesus desiring a miracle. “Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight.”
On another occasion a man in Bethsaida longed for healing. In contrast, this miracle did not come instantly. Rather, Jesus blessed him twice before he “was restored.”
In a third example, the Apostle Paul “besought the Lord thrice” in his affliction, and yet, to our knowledge, his earnest supplication was not granted.
Three different people. Three unique experiences.
Thus, a question: Why do some receive their yearned-for miracles quickly, while others patiently endure, waiting upon the Lord? We may not know the why, yet gratefully, we know He who “loveth [us]” and “[doeth] all things for [our] welfare and happiness.”



Divine Purposes

God, who sees the end from the beginning, reassures, “Thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment,” and they shall be consecrated “for thy gain.”
Helping us find further meaning in our trials, Elder Orson F. Whitney taught: “No pain that we suffer, no trial that we experience is wasted. It ministers to our education. … All … that we [patiently] endure … builds up our characters, purifies our hearts, expands our souls, and makes us more tender and charitable. … It is through sorrow and suffering, toil and tribulation, that we gain the education that we come here to acquire and which will make us more like our [heavenly parents].”
Understanding that “the power of Christ [would] rest upon [him]” in his afflictions, the Apostle Paul said humbly, “For when I am weak, then am I strong.”
Life’s trials prove us. Even the Savior “learned … obedience by” and was made “perfect through sufferings.”
And one day He will compassionately declare, “Behold, I have refined thee, I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction.”
Coming to trust in God’s divine purposes breathes hope into weary souls and kindles determination in seasons of anguish and heartache.



Divine Perspectives

Years ago, President Russell M. Nelson shared this valuable insight: “As we look at all things with eternal perspective, it will significantly lighten our load.”

My wife, Jill, and I recently witnessed this truth in the faithful lives of Holly and Rick Porter, whose 12-year-old son, Trey, passed away in a tragic fire. With hands and feet severely burned in a heroic attempt to save her dear son, Holly later testified in ward sacrament meeting of the great peace and joy the Lord had poured out upon her family in their anguish, using words such as miraculous, incredible, and amazing.

This precious mother’s unbearable grief was replaced by surpassing peace with this thought: “My hands are not the hands that save. Those hands belong to the Savior! Instead of looking at my scars as a reminder of what I was not able to do, I remember the scars my Savior bears.”
Holly’s witness fulfills our prophet’s promise: “As you think celestial, you will view trials and opposition in a new light.”
Elder D. Todd Christofferson stated: “I believe that the challenge of overcoming and growing from adversity appealed to us when God presented His plan of redemption in the premortal world. We should approach that challenge now knowing that our Heavenly Father will sustain us. But it is crucial that we turn to Him. Without God, the dark experiences of suffering and adversity tend to despondency, despair, and even bitterness.”



Divine Principles

To avoid the darkness of discontent and instead find greater peace, hope, and even joy during life’s difficult challenges, I share three divine principles as invitations.
One—stronger faith comes by putting Jesus Christ first. “Look unto me in every thought,” He declares; “doubt not, fear not.” President Nelson taught:
“[Our] eternal life is dependent upon [our] faith in [Christ] and in His Atonement.”
“As I have wrestled with the intense pain caused by my recent injury, I have felt even deeper appreciation for Jesus Christ and the incomprehensible gift of His Atonement. Think of it! The Savior suffered ‘pains and afflictions and temptations of every kind’ so that He can comfort us, heal us, [and] rescue us in times of need.”
He continued: “My injury has caused me to reflect again and again on ‘the greatness of the Holy One of Israel.’ During my healing, the Lord has manifested His divine power in peaceful and unmistakable ways.”
“In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer,” our Savior encourages; “I have overcome the world.”
Two—brighter hope comes by envisioning our eternal destiny. In speaking of the power inherent in keeping “a vision of our Father’s incredible promised blessings … before our eyes every day,” Sister Linda Reeves testified: “I do not know why we have the many trials that we have, but it is my personal feeling that the reward is so great, … so joyful and beyond our understanding that in that day of reward, we may feel to say to our merciful, loving Father, ‘Was that all that was required?’ … What will it matter … what we suffered here if, in the end, those trials … qualify us for eternal life … in the kingdom of God?”
President Nelson shared this insight: “Consider the Lord’s response to Joseph Smith when he pleaded for relief in Liberty Jail. The Lord taught the Prophet that his inhumane treatment would give him experience and be for his good. ‘If thou endure it well,’ the Lord promised, ‘God shall exalt thee on high.’ The Lord was teaching Joseph to think celestial and to envision an eternal reward rather than focus on the excruciating difficulties of the day.”
Joseph’s change in perspective brought deepening sanctification, as reflected in this letter to a friend: “After having been inclosed in the walls of a prison for five months it seems to me that my heart will always be more tender after this than ever it was before. … I think I never could have felt as I do now if I had not suffered the wrongs that I have suffered.”
Three—greater power comes by focusing on joy. During eternity’s most crucial, agonizing hours, our Savior did not shrink but partook of the bitter cup. How did He do it? We learn, “For the joy that was set before him [Christ] endured the cross,” His will “being swallowed up in the will of the Father.”

This phrase “swallowed up” deeply moves me. My interest was heightened when I learned that in Spanish, “swallowed up” is translated as “consumed”; in German, as “devoured”; and in Chinese, as “engulfed.” Thus, when life’s challenges are most painful and overwhelming, I remember the Lord’s promise—that we “should suffer no manner of afflictions, save it [be] swallowed up [consumed, devoured, and engulfed] in the joy of Christ.”
I see in so many of you this joy, which “[defies] … mortal comprehension,” even though your bitter cups have not yet been removed. Thank you for keeping your covenants and standing as witnesses for God. Thank you for reaching out to bless us all, while “in [your] quiet heart is hidden sorrow that the eye can’t see.” For when you bring the Savior’s relief to others, you will find it for yourselves, taught President Camille N. Johnson.



Divine Promises

Now, return with me to the sacrament meeting where we witnessed the miracle of Holly Porter’s family being succored by the Lord. On the stand while pondering what I might say to offer comfort to this remarkable family and their friends, this thought came: “Use the Savior’s words.” So I close today as I did on that Sabbath, with His words, “which healeth the wounded soul.”
“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.”
“I will also ease the burdens which are put upon your shoulders, that even you cannot feel them upon your backs, even while you are in bondage; … that ye may know of a surety that I, the Lord God, do visit my people in their afflictions.”
“I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.”



My Witness

With joyful reverence, I witness our Savior lives and “His promises are sure.” Especially for you who are troubled or who are “afflicted in any manner,” I testify that our Heavenly Father hears your tearful pleadings and will always respond in perfect wisdom. “May God grant unto you,” as He has done for our family in times of great need, “that your burdens may be light,” even “swallowed up in the joy of Christ.” In the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Mark 10:52; emphasis added.


Mark 8:25.


2 Corinthians 12:8; emphasis added.


See Psalm 130:5.


1 Nephi 11:17.


Helaman 12:2; see also 2 Nephi 26:24.


See Abraham 2:8.


Doctrine and Covenants 121:7.


2 Nephi 2:2.


Orson F. Whitney, in Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Spencer W. Kimball (2006), 16.


2 Corinthians 12:9–10.


See Abraham 3:25–26.


Hebrews 5:8; 2:10.


1 Nephi 20:10; emphasis added.


See 2 Nephi 4:19–35.


Personal conversation with Elder Russell M. Nelson, Apr. 2011.


Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 118.


D. Todd Christofferson, “The Refining Fire of Affliction,” Liahona, Mar. 2022, 7; emphasis added.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 94.


Doctrine and Covenants 6:36.


Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” 118.


Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” 117. President Jeffrey R. Holland taught: “When you struggle, when you are rejected, when you are spit upon and cast out and made a hiss and a byword, you are standing with the best life this world has ever known, the only pure and perfect life ever lived. You have reason to stand tall and be grateful that the Living Son of the Living God knows all about your sorrows and afflictions” (“Missionary Work and the Atonement,” Ensign, Mar. 2001, 15).


Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” 117; see also Alma 7:11–12.


John 16:33.


See 2 Nephi 31:20; Ether 12:4; Moroni 7:48.


Linda S. Reeves, “Worthy of Our Promised Blessings,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2015, 11.


Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” 118.


Joseph Smith, letter to Presendia Huntington Buell, Mar. 15, 1839, josephsmithpapers.org.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 81–84.


See Mark 14:35–41.


Hebrews 12:2.


Mosiah 15:7.


Alma 31:38; see also Psalm 30:5; John 15:10–11; 1 Thessalonians 1:6; Joseph Smith Translation, James 1:2 (in James 1:2, footnote a); 2 Nephi 2:25; 9:18; Alma 26:6–7, 11, 27, 37; 28:8; 33:23; 36:20–21; Doctrine and Covenants 109:76; Moses 5:10–11.


“Just as the Savior offers peace that ‘passeth all understanding’ [Philippians 4:7], He also offers an intensity, depth, and breadth of joy that defy human logic or mortal comprehension. For example, it doesn’t seem possible to feel joy when your child suffers with an incurable illness or when you lose your job or when your spouse betrays you. Yet that is precisely the joy the Savior offers. His joy is constant, assuring us that our ‘afflictions shall be but a small moment’ [Doctrine and Covenants 121:7] and be consecrated to our gain” (Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 82).


See Mosiah 24:14; Alma 33:23. Last year, Jill and I met Paula, a beautiful young Guatemalan woman who was struggling mightily with cancer. Her response to my question of how she was feeling left an unforgettable memory in our minds and hearts: “I am grateful,” this humble teenager quietly responded almost in a whisper, “that the Lord gave it to me and not to my sister.” Then, although she was not feeling well, she; her sister, Sariah; and their father went on two ministering visits to two elderly widows with great personal needs and challenges of their own.


“Lord, I Would Follow Thee,” Hymns, no. 220.


See Camille N. Johnson, “Jesus Christ Is Relief,” Liahona, May 2023, 81; see also Luke 23:34, 43; John 19:26–27. Elder Neal A. Maxwell shared this beautiful insight, urging that “when, for the moment, we ourselves are not being stretched on a particular cross, we ought to be at the foot of someone else’s—full of empathy and proffering spiritual refreshment” (“Endure It Well,” Ensign, May 1990, 34).


See Alma 7:12.


See Dallin H. Oaks, “The Teachings of Jesus Christ,” Liahona, May 2023, 102–5.


Jacob 2:8; see also Neil L. Andersen, “Wounded,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 83–86.


Matthew 11:28; see also Matthew 28:20: “And, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world.”


Mosiah 24:14.


John 14:18.


“I Am a Child of God,” Children’s Songbook, 3; see also Doctrine and Covenants 98:3.


3 Nephi 17:7; see also Alma 36:3, 27.


See Exodus 2:24; 3:7; Mosiah 24:12.


See 2 Nephi 2:24; Mosiah 4:9; Isaiah 55:9. “Some blessings come soon, some come late, and some don’t come until heaven; but for those who embrace the gospel of Jesus Christ, they come” (Jeffrey R. Holland, “An High Priest of Good Things to Come,” Ensign, Nov. 1999, 38).


Alma 33:23.


Alma 31:38; see also Psalm 30:5; John 15:10–11; 1 Thessalonians 1:6; Joseph Smith Translation, James 1:2 (in James 1:2, footnote a); 2 Nephi 2:25; 9:18; Alma 26:6–7, 11, 27, 37; 28:8; 33:23; 36:20–21; Doctrine and Covenants 109:76; Moses 5:10–11.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Covenants and Responsibilities","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Covenants and Responsibilities

By President Dallin H. Oaks
First Counselor in the First Presidency

The Church of Jesus Christ is known as a church that emphasizes making covenants with God.


“How does your Church differ from others?” My answer to this important question has varied as I have matured and as the Church has grown. When I was born in Utah in 1932, our Church membership was only about 700,000, clustered mostly in Utah and nearby states. At that time, we had only 7 temples. Today the membership of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints numbers more than 17 million in about 170 nations. As of this April 1, we have 189 dedicated temples in many nations and 146 more in planning and construction. I have felt to speak about the purpose of these temples and the history and role of covenants in our worship. This will supplement the inspired teachings of earlier speakers.


I.

A covenant is a commitment to fulfill certain responsibilities. Personal commitments are essential to the regulation of our individual lives and to the functioning of society. This idea is currently being challenged. A vocal minority oppose institutional authority and insist that persons should be free from any restrictions that limit their individual freedom. Yet we know from millennia of experience that persons give up some individual freedoms to gain the advantages of living in organized communities. Such relinquishments of individual freedoms are principally based on commitments or covenants, expressed or implied.




Here are some examples of covenant responsibilities in our society: (1) judges, (2) military, (3) medical personnel, and (4) firefighters. All of those involved in these familiar occupations make a commitment—often formalized by oath or covenant—to perform their assigned duties. The same is true of our full-time missionaries. Distinctive clothing or name tags are intended to signify that the wearer is under covenant and therefore has a duty to teach and serve and should be supported in that service. A related purpose is to remind the wearers of their covenant responsibilities. There is no magic in their distinctive clothing or symbols, only a needed reminder of the special responsibilities the wearers have assumed. This is also true of the symbols of the engagement and wedding rings and their role in giving notice to observers or reminding wearers of covenant responsibilities.




II.

What I have said about covenants being a foundation for the regulation of individual lives applies particularly to religious covenants. The foundation and history of many religious affiliations and requirements are based on covenants. For example, the Abrahamic covenant is fundamental to several great religious traditions. It introduces the holy idea of God’s covenant promises with His children. The Old Testament frequently refers to God’s covenant with Abraham and his seed.
The first part of the Book of Mormon, which was written during the Old Testament period, clearly demonstrates the role of covenants in the Israelite history and worship. Nephi was told that the Israelite writings of that period were “a record of the Jews, which contains the covenants of the Lord, which he hath made unto the house of Israel.” The books of Nephi make frequent reference to the Abrahamic covenant and to Israel as “the covenant people of the Lord.” The practice of covenanting with God or religious leaders is also recorded in the Book of Mormon writings about Nephi, Joseph in Egypt, King Benjamin, Alma, and Captain Moroni.



III.

When the time came for the Restoration of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, God called a prophet, Joseph Smith. We do not know the full content of the angel Moroni’s early instructions to this maturing young prophet. We do know he told Joseph that “God had a work for [him] to do” and that “the fulness of the everlasting Gospel” must be brought forth, including “the promises made to the fathers.” We also know that the scriptures young Joseph read most intensively—even before he was directed to organize a church—were the many teachings about covenants he was translating in the Book of Mormon. That book is the Restoration’s major source for the fulness of the gospel, including God’s plan for His children, and the Book of Mormon is filled with references to covenants.
Being well read in the Bible, Joseph must have known of the book of Hebrews’ reference to the Savior’s intent to “make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah.” Hebrews also refers to Jesus as “the mediator of the new covenant.” Significantly, the biblical account of the Savior’s mortal ministry is titled “The New Testament,” a virtual synonym for “The New Covenant.”
Covenants were foundational in the Restoration of the gospel. This is evident in the earliest steps the Lord directed the Prophet to take in organizing His Church. As soon as the Book of Mormon was published, the Lord directed the organization of His restored Church, soon to be named The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Revelation recorded in April 1830 directs that persons “shall be received by baptism into his church” after they “witness” (which means solemnly testify) “that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end.”
This same revelation directs that the Church “meet together often to partake of bread and wine [water] in the remembrance of the Lord Jesus.” The importance of this ordinance is evident in the words of covenants specified for the elder or priest who officiates. He blesses the emblems of the bread for “the souls of all those who partake of it … , that they … witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given them.”
The central role of covenants in the newly restored Church was reaffirmed in the preface the Lord gave for the first publication of His revelations. There the Lord declares that He has called Joseph Smith because the inhabitants of the earth “have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant.” This revelation further explains that His commandments are being given “that mine everlasting covenant might be established.”
Today we understand the role of covenants in the restored Church and the worship of its members. President Gordon B. Hinckley gave this summary of the effect of our baptism and our weekly partaking of the sacrament: “Every member of this church who has entered the waters of baptism has become a party to a sacred covenant. Each time we partake of the sacrament of the Lord’s supper, we renew that covenant.”
We have been reminded by many speakers at this conference that President Russell M. Nelson often refers to the plan of salvation as the “covenant path” that “leads us back to [God]” and “is all about our relationship with God.” He teaches about the significance of covenants in our temple ceremonies and urges us to see the end from the beginning and to “think celestial.”



IV.

Now I speak more of temple covenants. In fulfillment of his responsibility to restore the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Prophet Joseph Smith spent much of his final years directing the construction of a temple in Nauvoo, Illinois. Through him the Lord revealed sacred teachings, doctrine, and covenants for his successors to administer in temples. There persons who were endowed were to be taught God’s plan of salvation and invited to make sacred covenants. Those who lived faithful to those covenants were promised eternal life, wherein “all things are theirs” and they “shall dwell in the presence of God and his Christ forever and ever.”
The endowment ceremonies in the Nauvoo Temple were administered just before our early pioneers were expelled to begin their historic trek to the mountains in the West. We have the testimonies of many pioneers that the power they received from being bound to Christ in their endowments in the Nauvoo Temple gave them the strength to make their epic journey and establish themselves in the West.
Persons who have been endowed in a temple are responsible to wear a temple garment, an article of clothing not visible because it is worn beneath outer clothing. It reminds endowed members of the sacred covenants they have made and the blessings they have been promised in the holy temple. To achieve those holy purposes, we are instructed to wear temple garments continuously, with the only exceptions being those obviously necessary. Because covenants do not “take a day off,” to remove one’s garments can be understood as a disclaimer of the covenant responsibilities and blessings to which they relate. In contrast, persons who wear their garments faithfully and keep their temple covenants continually affirm their role as disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is constructing temples all over the world. Their purpose is to bless the covenant children of God with temple worship and with the sacred responsibilities and powers and unique blessings of being bound to Christ they receive by covenant.

The Church of Jesus Christ is known as a church that emphasizes making covenants with God. Covenants are inherent in each of the ordinances of salvation and exaltation this restored Church administers. The ordinance of baptism and its associated covenants are requirements for entrance into the celestial kingdom. The ordinances and associated covenants of the temple are requirements for exaltation in the celestial kingdom, which is eternal life, “the greatest of all the gifts of God.” That is the focus of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
I testify of Jesus Christ, who is the head of that Church, and invoke His blessings on all who seek to keep their sacred covenants. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See, for example, Genesis 17:2–9; Exodus 6:2–4; 19:5–6; Leviticus 26:42; see also 2 Nephi 9:1.


1 Nephi 13:23.


See 1 Nephi 15:18; 17:40; 22:9; 2 Nephi 29:14.


See, for example, 1 Nephi 14:14; 2 Nephi 6:13; 9:1.


See 2 Nephi 1:5; 3:4; 31:7, 13, 14; Mosiah 5:5–8; 6:1; Alma 7:15; 46:21–22.


Joseph Smith—History 1:33–34, 39.


Hebrews 8:8.


Hebrews 12:24. This same description appears in Doctrine and Covenants 76:69.


See Doctrine and Covenants 115:4.


Doctrine and Covenants 20:37; see also Mosiah 18:10–13.


Doctrine and Covenants 20:75, 77.


Doctrine and Covenants 1:15.


Doctrine and Covenants 1:22.


Gordon B. Hinckley, “God Is at the Helm,” Ensign, May 1994, 53.


Russell M. Nelson, “As We Go Forward Together,” Ensign or Liahona, Apr. 2018, 7; Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” Liahona, Oct. 2022, 5, 11. Also see Nephi’s use of the metaphor of walking in the “path”: 2 Nephi 4:32; 33:9.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 117–20.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:59, 62.


See Church History Topics, “Nauvoo Temple,” Gospel Library.


Doctrine and Covenants 14:7.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Testimony of Jesus","year":"2024","month":"04"}



The Testimony of Jesus

By Elder D. Todd Christofferson
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

My invitation is to act now to secure your place as one who is valiant in the testimony of Jesus.


In 1832, Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon received a remarkable vision concerning the eternal destiny of God’s children. This revelation spoke of three heavenly kingdoms. President Dallin H. Oaks spoke about these “kingdoms of glory” last October, noting that “through the triumph and the glory of the Lamb,” all but a relatively few individuals are eventually redeemed into one of these kingdoms, “according to the desires manifested through their choices.” God’s plan of redemption constitutes a universal opportunity for all His children, whenever and wherever they may have lived on the earth.
While the glory of even the least of the three kingdoms, the telestial, “surpasses all understanding,” our Father’s hope is that we will choose—and, through the grace of His Son, qualify for—the highest and most glorious of these kingdoms, the celestial, where we may enjoy eternal life as “joint-heirs with Christ.” President Russell M. Nelson has urged us to “think celestial,” making the celestial kingdom our eternal goal and then “carefully considering where each of [our] decisions while here on earth will place [us] in the next world.”
Those in the celestial kingdom are “they who received the testimony of Jesus, … who are just men made perfect through Jesus the mediator of the new covenant.” The inhabitants of the second, or terrestrial, kingdom are described as essentially good, including the “honorable men of the earth, who were blinded by the craftiness of men.” Their principal limiting trait is that they “are not valiant in the testimony of Jesus.” By contrast, those in the lower, telestial kingdom are those who “received not the gospel, neither the testimony of Jesus.”
Note that the distinguishing characteristic for the inhabitants of each kingdom is how they relate to “the testimony of Jesus,” ranging from (1) wholehearted devotion to (2) not being valiant to (3) outright rejection. On each person’s reaction hangs his or her eternal future.


I.

What is the testimony of Jesus?
It is the witness of the Holy Spirit that He is the divine Son of God, the Messiah and Redeemer. It is John’s testimony that Jesus was in the beginning with God, that He is the Creator of heaven and earth, and that “in him was the gospel, and the gospel was the life, and the life was the light of men.” It is “the testimony of the Apostles and Prophets, … that He died, was buried, and rose again the third day, and ascended into heaven.” It is the knowledge that “there is no other name given whereby salvation cometh.” It is the “testimony, last of all,” given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, “that he lives! … That he is the Only Begotten of the Father—that by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God.”



II.

Beyond this testimony is the question, What do we do about it?
The inheritors of the celestial kingdom “receive” the testimony of Jesus in the fullest sense by being baptized, receiving the Holy Ghost, and overcoming by faith. The principles and truths of the gospel of Jesus Christ govern their priorities and choices. The testimony of Jesus is manifest in what they are and what they are becoming. Their motive is charity, “the pure love of Christ.” Their focus is on pursuing “the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ.”
At least some of those who will be found in the terrestrial kingdom also accept the testimony of Jesus, but they are distinguished by what they don’t do about it. Not being valiant in the witness of the Savior suggests a degree of apathy or casualness—being “lukewarm”— as opposed to the people of Ammon in the Book of Mormon, for example, who were “distinguished for their zeal towards God.”
The inhabitants of the telestial kingdom are those who reject the testimony of Jesus along with His gospel, His covenants, and His prophets. They are described by Abinadi as “having gone according to their own carnal wills and desires; having never called upon the Lord while the arms of mercy were extended towards them; for the arms of mercy were extended towards them, and they would not.”



III.

What does it mean to be valiant in the testimony of Jesus?
There are several possibilities that could be considered in answering this question. I will mention a few. Being valiant in the testimony of Jesus surely includes nurturing and strengthening that testimony. True disciples do not ignore the seemingly small things that sustain and strengthen their testimony of Jesus, such as prayer, study of the scriptures, Sabbath observance, partaking of the sacrament, repentance, ministering, and worship in the house of the Lord. President Nelson reminds us that “with frightening speed, a testimony that is not nourished daily ‘by the good word of God’ [Moroni 6:4] can crumble. Thus, … we need daily experiences worshipping the Lord and studying His gospel.” Then he added: “I plead with you to let God prevail in your life. Give Him a fair share of your time. As you do, notice what happens to your positive spiritual momentum.”
Being valiant also suggests being open and public about one’s witness. In baptism, we confirm our willingness “to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that [we] may be in, even until death.” In this Easter season especially, we joyfully, publicly, and unreservedly proclaim our witness of the resurrected, living Christ.
One aspect of being valiant in the testimony of Jesus is to heed His messengers. God does not force us into the better path, the covenant path, but He instructs His prophets to make us fully aware of the consequences of our choices. And it is not just the members of His Church. Through His prophets and apostles, He lovingly pleads with all the world to heed the truth that will make them free, spare them needless suffering, and bring them enduring joy.
Being valiant in the testimony of Jesus means encouraging others, by word and example, to likewise be valiant, especially those of our own families. Elder Neal A. Maxwell once addressed “the essentially ‘honorable’ members [of the Church] who are skimming over the surface instead of deepening their discipleship and who are casually engaged rather than ‘anxiously engaged’ [Doctrine and Covenants 76:75; 58:27].” Noting that all are free to choose, Elder Maxwell lamented: “Unfortunately, however, when some choose slackness, they are choosing not only for themselves, but for the next generation and the next. Small equivocations in parents can produce large deviations in their children! Earlier generations in a family may have reflected dedication, while some in the current generation evidence equivocation. Sadly, in the next, some may choose dissension, as erosion takes its toll.”
Years ago, Elder John H. Groberg related the story of a young family living in a small branch in Hawaii in the early 1900s. They had been members of the Church for about two years when one of their daughters fell ill with an undiagnosed disease and was hospitalized. At church the next Sunday, the father and his son prepared the sacrament as they did most weeks, but as the young father knelt to bless the bread, the branch president, suddenly realizing who was at the sacrament table, jumped up and cried, “Stop. You can’t touch the sacrament. Your daughter has an unknown disease. Leave immediately while someone else fixes new sacrament bread. We can’t have you here. Go.” The stunned father searchingly looked at the branch president and then the congregation and, sensing the depth of anxiety and embarrassment from all, motioned to his family, and they quietly filed out of the chapel.
Not a word was said as, dejectedly, the family walked along the trail to their small home. There they sat in a circle, and the father said, “Please be silent until I am ready to speak.” The young son wondered what they would do to get revenge for the shame they had suffered: would they kill the branch president’s pigs, or burn his house, or join another church? Five, ten, fifteen, twenty-five minutes passed in silence.
The father’s clenched fists began to relax, and tears formed. The mother began to cry, and soon each of the children was quietly weeping. The father turned to his wife and said, “I love you,” and then repeated those words to each of their children. “I love all of you and I want us to be together, forever, as a family. And the only way that can be is for all of us to be good members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and be sealed by the holy priesthood in the temple. This is not the branch president’s church. It is the Church of Jesus Christ. We will not allow any man or any hurt or embarrassment or pride to keep us from being together forever. Next Sunday we will go back to church. We will stay by ourselves until our daughter’s sickness is known, but we will go back.”
They did go back, their daughter recovered, and the family was sealed in the Laie Hawaii Temple when it was completed. Today, well over 100 souls call their father, grandfather, and great-grandfather blessed because he kept his eyes on eternity.
One last aspect of being valiant in the testimony of Jesus that I will mention is our individual pursuit of personal holiness. Jesus is our essential Redeemer, and He pleads, “Repent, all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me and be baptized in my name, that ye may be sanctified by the reception of the Holy Ghost, that ye may stand spotless before me at the last day.”
The prophet Mormon describes one group of Saints who persevered in this manner despite having “to wade through much affliction”:
“Nevertheless they did fast and pray oft, and did wax stronger and stronger in their humility, and firmer and firmer in the faith of Christ, unto the filling their souls with joy and consolation, yea, even to the purifying and the sanctification of their hearts, which sanctification cometh because of their yielding their hearts unto God.” It is this mighty change of heart—yielding our hearts to God and being spiritually reborn through the grace of the Savior—that we seek.
My invitation is to act now to secure your place as one who is valiant in the testimony of Jesus. As repentance may be needed, “do not procrastinate the day of your repentance,” lest “in an hour when ye think not the summer shall be past, and the harvest ended, and your souls not saved.” Be zealous in keeping your covenants with God. Do not be “offended [by] the strictness of the word.” “Remember to retain the name [of Christ] written always in your hearts, … that ye [may] hear and know the voice by which ye shall be called, and also, the name by which he shall call you.” And finally, “settle this in your hearts, that ye will do the things which [Jesus] shall teach, and command you.”
Our Father wants all His children who will to enjoy eternal life with Him in His celestial kingdom. Jesus suffered, died, and was resurrected to make that possible. He “hath ascended into heaven, and hath sat down on the right hand of God, to claim of the Father his rights of mercy which he hath upon the children of men.” I pray that we may all be blessed with a burning testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ, rejoice and be valiant in that testimony, and enjoy the fruits of His grace in our lives continually. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Dallin H. Oaks, “Kingdoms of Glory,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 26–29.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:39.


Dallin H. Oaks, “Kingdoms of Glory,” 26.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:89.


Romans 8:17.


Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 118.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:51, 69; emphasis added.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:75, 79; emphasis added.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:101; emphasis added.


Joseph Smith Translation, John 1:4 (in the Bible appendix); see also John 1:1–3.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2011), 49.


Mosiah 5:8.


Doctrine and Covenants 76:22–24. The testimony of Jesus comes by the Holy Ghost, the spirit of prophecy and revelation (see Revelation 19:10; Teachings: Joseph Smith, 384–85).


See Doctrine and Covenants 76:51–53.


Moroni 7:47.


Ephesians 4:13.


See Revelation 3:15–16.


Alma 27:27.


Mosiah 16:12.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 99.


Mosiah 18:9.


See John 8:31–32.


Neal A. Maxwell, “Settle This in Your Hearts,” Ensign, Nov. 1992, 65. In addition to these remarks by Elder Maxwell, other general conference speakers in recent years have addressed this subject, including Quentin L. Cook (“Valiant in the Testimony of Jesus,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 40–44) and Rebecca L. Craven (“Careful versus Casual,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 9–11).


Neal A. Maxwell, “Settle This in Your Hearts,” 65–66.


See John H. Groberg, “Writing Your Personal and Family History,” Ensign, May 1980, 48–49.


“He hath power given unto him from the Father to redeem [us] from [our] sins because of repentance; therefore he hath sent his angels to declare the [glad] tidings of the conditions of repentance, which bringeth unto the power of the Redeemer, unto the salvation of [our] souls” (Helaman 5:11). See also Helaman 5:10: Jesus redeems us from our sins, not in our sins.


3 Nephi 27:20; see also verses 16–21; 3 Nephi 11:31–36.


Helaman 3:34.


Helaman 3:35.


See Mosiah 5:7; 27:24–31; Alma 5:11–15, 26; Moses 6:59–60.


Alma 34:33.


Doctrine and Covenants 45:2; see also Helaman 13:38.


Alma 35:15.


Mosiah 5:12; emphasis added.


Joseph Smith Translation, Luke 14:28 (in Luke 14:27, footnote b).


Moroni 7:27.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Call, Don’t Fall","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Call, Don’t Fall

By Elder Taylor G. Godoy
Of the Seventy

If we call out to God, I testify we will not fall.


Today I would like to begin by testifying of the complete certainty within my heart that God hears our prayers and answers them in a personalized way.
In a world going through times of uncertainty, pain, disappointment, and heartbreak, we might feel inclined to rely more on personal abilities and preferences, as well as the knowledge and security that come from the world. This could cause us to put in the background the real source of succor and support that can counter the challenges of this mortal life.

I remember an occasion when I was hospitalized for an illness, and it was difficult for me to sleep. When I turned off the lights and the room became dark, I saw a reflective sign on the ceiling in front of me that said, “Call, don’t fall.” To my surprise, the next day I observed the same message repeated in several parts of the room.

Why was that message so important? When I asked the nurse about it, she said, “It is to prevent a blow that might increase the pain you already have.”
This life, by its nature, brings painful experiences, some inherent to our physical bodies, some due to our weaknesses or afflictions, some due to the way others use their agency, and some due to our use of agency.
Is there a promise more powerful than the one the Savior Himself made when He declared, “Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock,” or call, “and it shall be opened unto you”?
Prayer is the means of communication with our Heavenly Father that allows us to “call and don’t fall.” However, there are circumstances in which we might think that the call has not been heard because we do not receive an immediate response or one according to our expectations.
This sometimes leads to anxiety, sadness, or disappointment. But remember Nephi’s expression of faith in the Lord when he said, “How is it that he cannot instruct me, that I should build a ship?” Now, I ask you, how is it that the Lord cannot instruct you, that you do not fall?
Confidence in God’s answers implies accepting that His ways are not our ways and that “all things must come to pass in their time.”
The certainty of knowing that we are children of a loving and merciful Heavenly Father should be the motivation to “call” in devout prayer with an attitude of “pray[ing] always, and not faint[ing]; … that [our] performance may be for the welfare of [our] soul[s].” Imagine the feelings of Heavenly Father when in each prayer we make a supplication in the name of His Son, Jesus Christ. What power and tenderness, I believe, are displayed when we do so!
The scriptures are full of examples of those who called out to God so they would not fall. Helaman and his army, while facing their afflictions, called upon God, pouring out their souls in prayer. They received assurance, peace, faith, and hope, gaining courage and determination until they achieved their goal.
Imagine how Moses would have called and cried out to God when finding himself between the Red Sea and the Egyptians approaching to attack, or Abraham when obeying the mandate to sacrifice his son Isaac.
I am certain that each of you have had and will have experiences where calling will be the answer to not fall.
Thirty years ago, while my wife and I were preparing for our civil marriage and our temple marriage, we received a call informing us that civil marriages were canceled due to a strike. We received the call three days before the scheduled ceremony. After several attempts at other offices and not finding available appointments, we began to feel distressed and doubtful that we really could get married as planned.
My fiancée and I “called,” pouring out our souls to God in prayer. Finally, someone told us about an office in a small town on the outskirts of the city where an acquaintance was the mayor. Without hesitation, we went to visit him and asked him if it would be possible to marry us. To our joy, he agreed. His secretary emphasized to us that we had to obtain a certificate in that city and deliver all the documents before noon the next day.
The next day, we moved to the small town and went to the police station to request the required document. To our surprise, the officer said that he would not give it to us because many young couples had been running away from their families to get married secretly in that town, which of course was not our case. Again, fear and sadness overtook us.
I remember how I silently called out to my Heavenly Father so as not to fall. I received a clear impression in my mind, repeatedly saying, “Temple recommend, temple recommend.” I immediately took out my temple recommend and handed it to the officer, to my fiancée’s bewilderment.
What a surprise we had when we heard the officer say, “Why didn’t you tell me that you are from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? I know your church well.” He immediately began to prepare the document. We were even more surprised when the officer left the station without saying anything.
Fifty minutes passed, and he did not return. It was already 11:55 in the morning, and we had only until noon to deliver the papers. Suddenly he appeared with a beautiful puppy and told us it was a wedding gift and gave it to us along with the document.
We ran toward the mayor’s office with our document and our new dog. Then we saw an official vehicle coming toward us. I stopped in front of it. The vehicle stopped, and we saw the secretary inside. Seeing us, she said, “I’m sorry; I told you noon. I must go on another errand.”
I humbled myself in silence, calling with all my heart to my Heavenly Father, asking for help once again to “not fall.” Suddenly, the miracle happened. The secretary said to us, “What a beautiful dog you have. Where could I find one like that for my son?”
“It is for you,” we immediately replied.
The secretary looked at us with surprise and said, “OK, let’s go to the office and make the arrangements.”

Two days later, Carol and I were married civilly, as planned, and then we were sealed in the Lima Peru Temple.
Of course, we need to remember that calling is a matter of faith and action—faith to recognize that we have a Heavenly Father who answers our prayers according to His infinite wisdom, and then action consistent with what we asked for. Praying—calling—can be a sign of our hope. But taking action after praying is a sign that our faith is real—faith that is tested in moments of pain, fear, or disappointment.
I suggest you consider the following:


Always think of the Lord as your first option for help.


Call, don’t fall. Turn to God in sincere prayer.


After praying, do all you can to obtain the blessings you prayed for.


Humble yourselves to accept the answer in His time and His way.


Don’t stop! Keep moving forward on the covenant path while you wait for an answer.


Perhaps there is someone right now who, due to circumstances, feels like they are about to fall and would like to call like Joseph Smith did when he cried out: “O God, where art thou? … How long shall thy hand be stayed?”
Even in circumstances such as these, pray with “spiritual momentum,” as President Russell M. Nelson taught, because your prayers are always heard!
Remember this hymn:


Ere you left your room this morning,
Did you think to pray?
In the name of Christ, our Savior,
Did you sue for loving favor
As a shield today?


Oh, how praying rests the weary!
Prayer will change the night to day.
So, when life gets dark and dreary,
Don’t forget to pray.9


As we pray we can feel the embrace of our Heavenly Father, who sent His Only Begotten Son to relieve our burdens, because if we call out to God, I testify we will not fall. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Matthew 7:7.


1 Nephi 17:51.


See Isaiah 55:8.


Doctrine and Covenants 64:32.


2 Nephi 32:9.


See Alma 58:10–11.


Doctrine and Covenants 121:1–2.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 97–100.


“Did You Think to Pray?,” Hymns, no. 140.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Bridging the Two Great Commandments","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Bridging the Two Great Commandments

By Elder Gary E. Stevenson
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Our ability to follow Jesus Christ depends upon our strength and power to live the first and second commandments with balance and equal devotion.




Introduction

​As my wife, Lesa, and I travel on assignment throughout the world, we relish the privilege of meeting with you in congregations large and small. Your devotion to the work of the Lord buoys us up and stands as a testimony to the gospel of Jesus Christ. We return home from each trip wondering if we possibly gave as much as we received.



When traveling, we have little time for sightseeing. However, when possible, I spend a few moments in a particular passion. I have an interest in architecture and design and a special fascination with bridges. Suspension bridges amaze me. Whether it’s the Rainbow Bridge in Tokyo, the Tsing Ma Bridge in Hong Kong, the Tower Bridge in London, or others I have seen, I marvel at the engineering genius built within these complicated structures. Bridges take us places we otherwise would not be able to go. (Before I continue, I note that since this message was prepared, a tragic bridge accident occurred in Baltimore. We mourn the loss of life and offer condolences to affected families.)



A Magnificent Suspension Bridge

​Recently, a conference assignment took me to California, where I once again crossed the iconic Golden Gate Bridge, regarded as an engineering wonder of the world. This monumental structure intertwines beautiful form, functional purpose, and masterful engineering. It is a classic suspension bridge with bookend towers, supported by massive piers. The colossal, majestic weight-bearing twin towers soaring above the ocean were the first elements to be constructed. Together they shoulder the load of the sweeping main suspension cables and the vertical suspender cables, which cradle the roadway below. The extraordinary stabilizing capacity—the power of the tower—is the magic behind the engineering of the bridge.



Golden Gate Bridge District


Early construction images of the bridge bear testimony of this engineering principle. Each bridge element finds weight-bearing support from the symmetrical towers, both interdependently connected one to another.



Getty Images/Underwood Archives


When the bridge is complete, with its two powerful towers firmly in place and piers anchored in a foundation of bedrock, it is an image of strength and beauty.


Today I invite you to look at this stately bridge—with its ascending twin towers built on a strong foundation—through a gospel lens.
In the twilight of Jesus Christ’s ministry, during what we now call Holy Week, a Pharisee who was a lawyer asked the Savior a question he knew was nearly impossible to answer: “Master, which is the great commandment in the law?” The lawyer, “tempting him” and seeking a legalistic answer, with seemingly deceitful intent, received a genuine, sacred, divine response.
“Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.
“This is the first and great commandment.” Hearkening to our bridge analogy, the first tower!
“And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.” This is the second tower!
“On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.” The remaining elements of the bridge!
Let’s examine each of the two great commandments, revealed and recited in Jesus Christ’s response. As we do so, let the image of the magnificent suspension bridge resonate in your mind’s eye.



Love the Lord

The first, to love the Lord with all your heart, soul, and mind.
In this answer, Jesus Christ condenses the essence of the law embodied in the sacred teachings of the Old Testament. To love the Lord centers first on your heart—your very nature. The Lord asks that you love with all your soul—your entire consecrated being—and finally, to love with all your mind—your intelligence and intellect. Love for God is not limited or finite. It is infinite and eternal.
For me, the application of the first great commandment can sometimes feel abstract, even daunting. Gratefully, as I consider further words of Jesus, this commandment becomes much more graspable: “If ye love me, keep my commandments.” This I can do. I can love Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ, which then leads to prayer, scripture study, and temple worship. We love the Father and the Son through the payment of tithes, keeping the Sabbath day holy, living a virtuous and chaste life, and being obedient.
Loving the Lord is often measured in small daily deeds, footsteps on the covenant path: for young people, using social media to build up rather than tear down; leaving the party, movie, or activity where standards might be challenged; showing reverence for things sacred.
Consider this tender example. It was fast Sunday as Vance and I knocked on the door of a small, humble home. We and other deacons in the quorum had come to expect the words “Please come in,” yelled warmly in a thick German accent loud enough to hear through the door. Sister Muellar was one of several immigrant widows in the ward. She couldn’t answer the door very easily, as she was legally blind. As we stepped inside the dimly lit home, she greeted us with kind questions: What are your names? How are you doing? Do you love the Lord? We answered and shared that we came to receive her fast offering. Even at our young age, her meager circumstances were readily apparent, and her faith-filled response was profoundly touching: “I placed a dime on the counter earlier this morning. I am so grateful to offer my fast offering. Would you be kind enough to place it in the envelope and fill out my fast-offering receipt?” Her love of the Lord lifted our faith each time we left her home.
King Benjamin promised remarkable power for those who follow the first great commandment. “I would desire that ye should consider on the blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments. … They are blessed in all things, … and if they hold out faithful to the end they are received into heaven … in a state of never-ending happiness.”
Loving the Lord leads to eternal happiness!



Love Your Neighbor

Jesus then said, “And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.” This is the second tower of the bridge.
Here Jesus bridges our heavenly upward gaze, to love the Lord, with our earthly outward gaze, to love our fellow men and women. One is interdependent on the other. Love of the Lord is not complete if we neglect our neighbors. This outward love includes all of God’s children without regard to gender, social class, race, sexuality, income, age, or ethnicity. We seek out those who are hurt and broken, the marginalized, for “all are alike unto God.” We “succor the weak, lift up the hands which hang down, and strengthen the feeble knees.”
Consider this example: Brother Evans was surprised when he was prompted to stop his car and knock on an unknown door of an unknown family. When a widowed mother of over 10 answered the door, their difficult circumstances and great needs became readily apparent to him. The first was simple, paint for their home, which was followed by many years of temporal and spiritual ministering to this family.
This thankful mother later wrote of her heaven-sent friend: “You have spent your life reaching out to the least of us. How I would love to hear the things the Lord has to say to you as He expresses His appreciation for the good you have done financially and spiritually for the people that only you and He will ever know about. Thank you for blessing us in so many ways, … for the missionaries you provided for. … I often wonder if the Lord picked on you exclusively or if you were just the one who listened.”
To love your neighbor includes Christlike deeds of kindness and service. Can you let go of grudges, forgive enemies, welcome and minister to your neighbors, and assist the elderly? You will each be inspired as you build your tower of love for neighbor.
President Russell M. Nelson taught: “Giving help to others—making a conscientious effort to care about others as much as or more than we care about ourselves—is our joy. Especially … when it is not convenient and when it takes us out of our comfort zone. Living that second great commandment is the key to becoming a true disciple of Jesus Christ.”



An Interdependency

Jesus further taught, “On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.” This is very instructive. There is an important interdependency between loving the Lord and loving one another. For the Golden Gate Bridge to perform its designed function, both towers are equally strong and with equal power to bear the weight of the suspension cables, the roadway, and the traffic crossing the bridge. Without this engineering symmetry, the bridge could be compromised, even leading to collapse. For any suspension bridge to do what it was built to do, its towers must function together in complete harmony. Likewise, our ability to follow Jesus Christ depends upon our strength and power to live the first and second commandments with balance and equal devotion to both.

The increasing contention in the world suggests, however, that we at times fail to see or remember this. Some are so focused on keeping the commandments that they show little tolerance of those they see as less righteous. Some find it difficult to love those who are choosing to live their lives outside of the covenant or even away from any religious participation.
Alternatively, there are those who emphasize the importance of loving others without acknowledgment that we are all accountable to God. Some refuse entirely the notion that there is such a thing as absolute truth or right and wrong and believe that the only thing required of us is complete tolerance and acceptance of the choices of others. Either of these imbalances could cause your spiritual bridge to tip or even fall.
President Dallin H. Oaks described this when he said: “We are commanded to love everyone, since Jesus’s parable of the good Samaritan teaches that everyone is our neighbor. But our zeal to keep this second commandment must not cause us to forget the first, to love God with all our heart, soul, and mind.”



Conclusion

So the question for each of us is, How do we build our own bridge of faith and devotion—erecting tall bridge towers of both loving God and loving our neighbors? Well, we just start. Our initial efforts might look like a plan on the back of a napkin or an early-stage blueprint of the bridge we hope to construct. It might consist of a few realistic goals to understand the Lord’s gospel more or to vow to judge others less. No one is too young or too old to begin.

Over time, with prayerful and thoughtful planning, rough ideas are refined. New actions become habits. Early drafts become polished blueprints. We build our personal spiritual bridge with hearts and minds devoted to Heavenly Father and His Only Begotten Son as well as to our brothers and sisters with whom we work, play, and live.
In the days ahead, when you pass over a majestic suspension bridge or even when you see a picture, with its soaring towers, I invite you to remember the two great commandments, described by Jesus Christ in the New Testament. May the Lord’s instructions inspire us. May our hearts and minds be lifted upward to love the Lord and turned outward to love our neighbor.
May this strengthen our faith in Jesus Christ and His Atonement, of which I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


“In the New Testament, [the term lawyer was] equivalent to scribe, one who was by profession a student and teacher of the law, including the written law of the Pentateuch, and also ‘the traditions of the elders’ (Matt. 22:35; Mark 12:28; Luke 10:25)” (Bible Dictionary, “Lawyer”).


Anciently, Jewish scholars had enumerated 613 commandments in the Torah and actively debated the relative importance of one versus the other. Perhaps the lawyer intended to use Jesus’s answer against Him. If He said one commandment was the most important, it might allow an opening to accuse Jesus of ignoring another aspect of the law. But the Savior’s response silenced those who had come to entrap Him with a foundational statement that today is the bedrock for all we do in the Church.


Matthew 22:36–40.


See Doctrine and Covenants 88:15.


John 14:15.


Both names changed in this story to protect privacy.


Mosiah 2:41.


Matthew 22:39.


2 Nephi 26:33.


Doctrine and Covenants 81:5.


Name changed to protect privacy.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Second Great Commandment,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 100.


Matthew 22:40.


Dallin H. Oaks, “Two Great Commandments,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 73–74.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Opposition in All Things","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Opposition in All Things

By Elder Mathias Held
Of the Seventy

To be able to exercise our agency, we need to have opposing options to consider.


Recently, while driving in a city unknown to us, I inadvertently took a wrong turn, which led my wife and me onto an express highway for endless miles without being able to turn around again. We had received a kind invitation to a friend’s home and worried that we would now arrive much later than we were expected to.
While on this highway and desperately looking for a way out again, I blamed myself for not paying better attention to the navigation system. This experience caused me to think about how in our lives we sometimes make wrong decisions and how we must live with the consequences humbly and patiently until we are able to change our course again.
Life is all about making choices. Our Father in Heaven gave us the divine gift of agency precisely so that we could learn from our choices—from the right ones and also from the wrong ones. We correct our wrong choices when we repent. This is where growth happens. Heavenly Father’s plan for all of us is about learning, developing, and progressing toward eternal life.
Ever since my wife and I were taught by the missionaries and joined the Church many years ago, I have always been impressed by the profound teachings that Lehi gave to his son Jacob in the Book of Mormon. He taught him that “the Lord God gave unto man that he should act for himself” and that “it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things.” To be able to exercise our agency, we need to have opposing options to consider. In doing so, the Book of Mormon also reminds us that we have been “instructed sufficiently” and that “the Spirit of Christ” has been given to every one of us to “know good from evil.”
In life, we constantly confront many important choices. For example:


Choosing whether or not we will follow God’s commandments.


Choosing to have faith and recognize when miracles happen or to skeptically wait for something to happen before choosing to believe only then.


Choosing to develop trust in God or to fearfully anticipate another challenge the next day.


As when I took a wrong turn on that highway, suffering from the consequences of our own poor decisions can often be especially painful because we only have ourselves to blame. Nevertheless, we can always choose to receive comfort through the divine process of repentance, make wrong things right again, and in doing so learn some life-changing lessons.
Sometimes we can also experience opposition and trials from things outside of our control, such as:


Moments of health and periods of sickness.


Times of peace and times of war.


Hours of day and of night and seasons of summer and of winter.


Times of labor followed by times of rest.


Even though we usually cannot choose between these kinds of situations because they just happen, we are still free to choose how to react to them. We can do so with a positive or with a pessimistic attitude. We can seek to learn from the experience and ask for our Lord’s help and support, or we can think that we are on our own in this trial and that we must suffer it alone. We can “adjust our sails” to the new reality, or we can decide not to change anything. In the darkness of night, we can turn on our lights. In the cold of winter, we should choose to wear warm clothes. In seasons of sickness, we can seek medical and spiritual help. We choose how to react to these circumstances.
Adjust, learn, seek, choose are all action verbs. Remember that we are agents and not objects. Let us never forget that Jesus promised to “take upon him the pains and sicknesses of his people … that he may … succor,” or help, us as we turn to Him. We can choose to build our foundation on the rock that is Jesus Christ so that when the whirlwind comes, “it shall have no power over [us].” He has promised that “whosoever will come [to Him], him will [He] receive; and blessed are those who come unto [Him].”
Now, there is one additional principle that is especially important. Lehi said that there “must needs be … an opposition in all things.” This means that opposites don’t exist apart from each other. They can even complement each other. We would not be able to identify joy unless we had also experienced sorrow at some point. Feeling hungry at times helps us to be especially grateful when we do have enough to eat again. We would not be able to identify truth unless we had also seen lies here and there.
These opposites are all like the two sides of one same coin. Both sides are always present. Charles Dickens provided an example of this idea when he wrote that “it was the best of times, it was the worst of times.”
Let me give an example from our own life. Getting married, forming a family, and having children brought to us the greatest moments of joy we have ever experienced in our lives but also the most profound moments of pain, anguish, and grief when something happened to any one of us. Infinite joy and bliss with our children were sometimes also followed by recurring periods of sicknesses, hospitalizations, and sleepless nights filled with distress, as well as finding relief in prayers and priesthood blessings. These contrasting experiences taught us that we are never alone in moments of suffering, and they also showed us how much we can carry with the Lord’s succor and help. These experiences helped to shape us in wonderful ways, and it has all been totally worthwhile. Is this not what we came here for?
In the scriptures we also find some interesting examples:


Lehi taught his son Jacob that the afflictions he suffered in the wilderness helped him know the greatness of God and that “[God] shall consecrate [his] afflictions for [his] gain.”


During Joseph Smith’s cruel incarceration in Liberty Jail, the Lord told him that “all these things shall give [him] experience, and shall be for [his] good.”


Finally, Jesus Christ’s infinite sacrifice was certainly the greatest example of pain and suffering ever seen, but it also brought about the wonderful blessings of His Atonement to all of God’s children.


Where there is sunshine, shadows must be there too. Floods can bring destruction, but they usually bring life as well. Tears of grief often turn into tears of relief and happiness. Feelings of sadness when loved ones depart are later compensated with the joy of meeting again. In periods of war and destruction, many little acts of kindness and love are also happening for those with “eyes to see, and ears to hear.”
Our world today is often characterized by fear and anxiety—fear of what the future might bring for us. But Jesus has taught us to trust and “look unto [Him] in every thought; doubt not, fear not.”
Let us constantly make a very conscious effort to see both sides of every coin allotted to us in our lives. Even though both sides might sometimes not be immediately visible to us, we can know and trust that they are always there.
We can rest assured that our difficulties, sorrows, afflictions, and pains do not define us; rather, it is how we go about them that will help us grow and draw closer to God. It is our attitudes and choices that define us much better than our challenges.
When in health, cherish and be grateful for it every moment. When in sickness, seek to patiently learn from it and know that this can change again according to God’s will. When in sorrow, trust that happiness is around the corner; we often just cannot see it yet. Consciously shift your focus and elevate your thoughts to the positive aspects of challenges, because they are undoubtedly always there too! Never forget to be grateful. Choose to believe. Choose to have faith in Jesus Christ. Choose to always trust God. Choose to “think celestial,” as President Russell M. Nelson recently taught us!
Let us always be mindful of our Heavenly Father’s wonderful plan for us. He loves us and sent His Beloved Son to help in our trials and to open for us the door to return to Him. Jesus Christ lives and stands there at every moment, waiting for us to choose to call upon Him to provide succor, strength, and salvation. Of these things I testify in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


2 Nephi 2:16.


2 Nephi 2:11.


2 Nephi 2:5.


Moroni 7:16.


2 Nephi 2:5.


Alma 7:11, 12.


Helaman 5:12.


3 Nephi 9:14.


2 Nephi 2:11; emphasis added.


Charles Dickens, A Tale of Two Cities (1859), 1.


2 Nephi 2:2.


Doctrine and Covenants 122:7.


Deuteronomy 29:4.


Doctrine and Covenants 6:36.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 117–20.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Temples, Houses of the Lord Dotting the Earth","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Temples, Houses of the Lord Dotting the Earth

By Elder Neil L. Andersen
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

As you come worthily and prayerfully to His holy house, you will be armed with His power.


Don’t you love the beautiful words we just sang? “I’ll strengthen thee, help thee, and cause thee to stand, … upheld by my righteous, omnipotent hand.” The Lord is strengthening His Saints of all ages as they come to His holy house. From Kinshasa to Zollikofen to Fukuoka to Oakland, the youth, of their own initiative, are overflowing temple baptistries. In the past, most beloved ordinance workers had graying hair—but not anymore. Called missionaries, service missionaries, and returned missionaries are around every corner. Across the world, there is a growing feeling drawing us to the house of the Lord.
Just over a year ago, a dear family friend, age 95, living on the east coast of the United States, who had been taught by missionaries for 70 years, said to her daughter, “I want to go to the temple with you.”
Her daughter replied, “Well, Mother, you first need to be baptized.”

“OK,” she replied, “then I want to be baptized.” She was baptized. A few days later, she reverently entered the temple baptistry. And just over a month ago, she received her own endowment and sealing. “The knowledge and power of God are expanding; the veil o’er the earth is beginning to burst.”

Have you wondered why the Lord would direct His prophet to now dot the earth with His holy temples? Why would He, at this specific time, give the needed prosperity to His covenant people that through their sacred tithes, hundreds of houses of the Lord could be built?
This morning, President Dallin H. Oaks showed a beautiful visual of the temples being constructed across the world. Kathy and I were recently in the Philippines. Think of this miracle: The Manila Temple was dedicated in 1984. It would be 26 years before the second temple, in Cebu City, was completed in 2010. Now, 14 years later, 11 temples are being constructed, designed, or prepared for dedication. From the north to the south: Laoag, Tuguegarao, Santiago, Urdaneta, Alabang, Naga, Tacloban City, Iloilo, Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro, and Davao. It is breathtaking to see the wondrous works of God!

Across the globe, houses of the Lord are coming closer to us. Why in our day?


The Last Days

The Lord warned that in the last days, there would be distress among nations, people would “be lovers of their own selves,” “all things [would] be in commotion,” confusion would abound, and “men’s hearts [would] fail them.” We have certainly seen men’s and women’s hearts fail them: the enticements of the world, the distraction of alluring voices, the neglect of spiritual nourishment, the fatigue from the demands of discipleship. Perhaps you have been saddened as you have seen someone you love, who at one time spoke sincerely of his or her faith in Jesus Christ, bore witness of the Book of Mormon, and eagerly helped build the kingdom of God, suddenly move away, at least for now, from his or her beliefs and toward the sidelines of the Church. My counsel to you is don’t despair! All is well. For with God, nothing is impossible.
With this prophesied commotion and disbelief in the world, the Lord promised that there would be a covenant people, a people eagerly awaiting His return, a people who stand in holy settings and are not moved out of their place. He spoke of a righteous people resisting the deceptions of the adversary, disciplining their faith, thinking celestial, and trusting completely in the Savior Jesus Christ.
Why is the Lord now bringing hundreds of His temples closer to us? One reason is that amid the turmoil and temptations of the world, He has promised to strengthen and bless His covenant Saints, and His promises are being fulfilled!



Promises from the Kirtland Temple

How do these holy houses strengthen, comfort, and protect us? We find an answer in the pleadings of the Prophet Joseph Smith in the dedication of the Kirtland Temple. It was in this temple where the Saints sang, “We’ll sing and we’ll shout with the armies of heaven.” The Savior Himself appeared, and prophets of old returned, bestowing additional priesthood keys to the restored gospel.
On that sacred occasion in the Kirtland Temple, the Prophet prayed that in the Lord’s holy house, the Saints would be armed with the power of God, that the name of Jesus Christ would be upon them, that His angels would have charge over them, and that they would grow up in the Lord and “receive a fulness of the Holy Ghost.” These powerful supplications are fulfilled in our lives as we faithfully worship in the house of the Lord.



Armed with Power

In His house, we are literally endowed with heavenly power. Our faith in Jesus Christ and our love for Him are confirmed and fortified. We are spiritually assured of our true identity and the purposes of life. As we are faithful, we are blessed with protection from temptations and distractions. We feel our Savior’s love as He lifts us from our difficulties and sorrows. We are armed with the power of God.



His Name upon Us

In His holy house, we take His name more completely upon us. When we are baptized, we profess our belief in Him and our willingness to keep His commandments. In the temple, we sacredly promise, through our covenants, to follow Him forever.

The youth of this Church are incredible. In a difficult world, they take upon themselves the name of Christ. In Heber City, Utah, a public meeting was held to discuss the details of a temple planned for construction. Three hundred youth filled the adjoining park to show their support for the proposed temple. One young man, speaking to government leaders in an open forum, courageously explained, “I am hoping to be married in this temple. [The temple will help] me to keep myself clean and pure.” Another described the temple as a symbol of light and hope. Young men and women of the Church throughout the world are embracing the name of Jesus Christ.




Angels with Us

In the Kirtland Temple, the Prophet Joseph prayed that “angels [would] have charge over [His Saints].” Regularly performing ordinances for our ancestors in the temple brings a sweet and sure confirmation that life continues beyond the veil.
Although many of our experiences in the house of the Lord are too sacred to share publicly, some we can share. Forty years ago, while living in Florida, Kathy and I traveled to the temple in Atlanta, Georgia. On Wednesday night, May 9, 1984, as we completed a session in the temple, an ordinance worker approached me and asked if I had time to do just one preparatory initiatory ordinance. The name of the person I represented was unusual. His name was Eleazer Cercy.
The next day, the temple was full of Saints. As I prepared to perform my second endowment of the day, I was given the name of the person I would represent. Surprisingly, the name was the same individual from the night before, Eleazer Cercy. I felt the Spirit of the Lord as the endowment was completed. Later in the afternoon, still in the temple, Kathy saw an elderly family friend, Sister Dolly Fernandez, who now lived in Atlanta. With no male members of her family with her, she asked if I could possibly assist in the sealing of her father to her father’s parents. I was of course honored.
As I knelt at the end of the altar for this sacred ordinance, I heard once again the name that was now inscribed in my mind, her father, Eleazer Cercy. I fully believe that following this life, I will meet and embrace a man known in his mortal life as Eleazer Cercy.
Most of our experiences in the house of the Lord bring joyful peace and quiet revelation more than dramatic intervention. But be assured: angels do have charge over us!



A Fulness of the Holy Ghost

The gift of the Holy Ghost is given to us as we are confirmed a member of the Church. Each week as we worthily partake of the bread and water in remembrance of our Savior, we are promised His Spirit will always be with us. As we come with willing hearts to the house of the Lord, the most holy place on earth, we grow up in the Lord and can “receive a fulness of the Holy Ghost.” Through the power of the Holy Ghost, we are filled with peace and joy and unspeakable hope. We receive the strength to remain His disciples even when we find ourselves outside of holy places.
President Russell M. Nelson has declared: “Our Savior and Redeemer, Jesus Christ, will perform some of His mightiest works between now and when He comes again. We will see miraculous indications that God the Father and … Jesus Christ … preside over this Church in majesty and glory.” Dotting the earth with houses of the Lord is a mighty work and miraculous indication.
My beloved friends, if we are able and have not already increased our attendance at the temple, let us regularly find more time to worship in the house of the Lord. Let us pray for the temples that have been announced, that properties can be purchased, that governments will approve plans, that talented workers will see their gifts magnified, and that the sacred dedications will bring the approval of heaven and the visit of angels.



Promises

The temple is literally the house of the Lord. I promise you as you come worthily and prayerfully to His holy house, you will be armed with His power, His name will be upon you, His angels will have charge over you, and you will grow up in the blessing of the Holy Ghost.
The Lord promised, “Every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am.” There are many different ways to see the face of Christ, and there is no better place than in His holy house.

In this day of confusion and commotion, I testify that the temple is His holy house and will help preserve us, protect us, and prepare us for the glorious day when, with all His holy angels, our Savior returns in majesty, power, and great glory. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


“How Firm a Foundation,” Hymns, no. 85.


“The Spirit of God,” Hymns, no. 2.


There are currently 182 operating temples. Six are under renovation. Seven are awaiting dedication, with one more awaiting rededication. There are 45 under construction and 94 more which have been announced or are in planning and design.


See Luke 21:10.


2 Timothy 3:2.


Doctrine and Covenants 88:91.


Elder David A. Bednar said: “Gospel principles are for me and you what a helm is to a ship. Correct principles enable us to find our way and to stand firm, steadfast, and immovable so we do not lose our balance and fall in the raging latter-day storms of darkness and confusion” (“The Principles of My Gospel,” Liahona, May 2021, 126).


Doctrine and Covenants 45:26.


“If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me” (Matthew 16:24).


See Luke 1:37.


See Doctrine and Covenants 87:8.


Hymns, no. 2.


See Doctrine and Covenants 110. Prior to this time, the Prophet Joseph Smith had received the Aaronic Priesthood and its keys from John the Baptist, and he had received the Melchizedek Priesthood and its keys from the Apostles Peter, James, and John (see Doctrine and Covenants 13:1; 27:12–13).


Doctrine and Covenants 109:15; see also verse 22.


President Russell M. Nelson said: “The temple can help us in our quest. There we are endowed with God’s power, giving us the ability to overcome Satan, the instigator of all contention” (“Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 101).


See Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022), Gospel Library.


Elder Colin Stauffer, personal correspondence, Jan. 30, 2024.


Doctrine and Covenants 109:22.


See Doctrine and Covenants 20:77, 79.


Doctrine and Covenants 109:15.


See Romans 15:13.


Russell M. Nelson, “Revelation for the Church, Revelation for Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 96.


President Brigham Young said, “We will have hundreds of temples and thousands of men and women officiating therein for those who have fallen asleep, without having had the privilege of hearing and obeying the Gospel” (Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Brigham Young [1997], 312). And President Ezra Taft Benson said: “Our predecessors have prophesied that temples will dot the landscape of North and South America, the isles of the Pacific, Europe, and elsewhere. If this redemptive work is to be done on the scale it must be, hundreds of temples will be needed” (The Teachings of Ezra Taft Benson [1988], 247).


Doctrine and Covenants 93:1.


Elder David B. Haight said:
“It is true that some have actually seen the Savior, but when one consults the dictionary, he learns that there are many other meanings of the word see, such as coming to know Him, discerning Him, recognizing Him and His work, perceiving His importance, or coming to understand Him.
“Such heavenly enlightenment and blessings are available to each of us” (“Temples and Work Therein,” Ensign, Nov. 1990, 61).



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"It Is Wisdom in the Lord That We Should Have the Book of Mormon","year":"2024","month":"04"}



It Is Wisdom in the Lord That We Should Have the Book of Mormon

By President Mark L. Pace
Sunday School General President

It is my prayer that reading the Book of Mormon this year will be a joy and a blessing for each of us.


Dear brothers and sisters, we are so grateful for your efforts in reading the scriptures with Come, Follow Me. Thank you for all you are doing. Your daily connection with God and His word has profound consequences. “Ye are laying the foundation of a great work. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great.”
Reading the Savior’s teachings in the scriptures helps us transform our homes into sanctuaries of faith and centers of gospel learning. It invites the Spirit into our homes. The Holy Ghost fills our souls with joy and converts us into lifelong disciples of Jesus Christ.
Over these last several years, while reading the books of holy scripture, we have observed the panorama of God’s teachings to His children in all the major gospel dispensations.
In every dispensation, we have seen a familiar pattern. God restores or reveals the gospel of Jesus Christ through His prophets. The people follow the prophets and are greatly blessed. However, over time, some people stop heeding the words of the prophets and distance themselves from the Lord and His gospel. This is what we call apostasy. The gospel was first revealed to Adam, but some of the children of Adam and Eve turned away from the Lord in apostasy. We see a pattern of restoration and apostasy repeated in the dispensations of Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Moses, and others.
Now, today, we live in the dispensation of the fulness of times. This is the only dispensation that will not end in an apostasy. It is this dispensation that will usher in the Second Coming of the Savior Jesus Christ and His millennial reign.
So, what’s different about this dispensation? What has the Lord provided us today, especially for our time, that will help us draw near to the Savior and never leave Him?
One answer that comes to my mind is the scriptures—and particularly the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ.
While God has promised there will never be another general apostasy, we need to be mindful and careful to avoid a personal apostasy—remembering, as President Russell M. Nelson has taught, “We are each responsible for our individual spiritual growth.” Studying the Book of Mormon, as we are doing this year, always brings us closer to the Savior—and helps us stay close to Him.
We call it “study,” and that’s good because it implies effort. But we don’t always need to learn some new fact. Sometimes reading the Book of Mormon is just about feeling connected to God today—nourishing the soul, being strengthened spiritually before heading out to face the world, or finding healing after a rough day out in the world.
We study the scriptures so the Holy Ghost, the great teacher, can deepen our conversion to Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ and help us become more like Them.
With these thoughts in mind, we could consider, “What has the Holy Ghost taught us this week during our study of the Book of Mormon?” and “How does this bring us closer to the Savior?”
These are good questions for our scripture study at home. They are also excellent questions to start a Sunday class at church. We improve our teaching at church on Sunday by improving our learning at home during the week. Thus, in our Sunday classes, “he that preacheth and he that receiveth, understand one another, and both are edified and rejoice together.”
Here are a few verses the Spirit has impressed upon my mind from this week’s Book of Mormon study:


Nephi instructed Jacob to “preserve these plates and hand them down … from generation to generation. And if there were preaching which was sacred, or revelation … , or prophesying,” Jacob should “engraven … them upon these plates … for the sake of [their] people.”


Jacob later testified, “We search the [scriptures], … and having all these witnesses we obtain a hope, and our faith becometh unshaken.”


Now, these verses caused me to remember what Nephi had said previously about the brass plates:
“We had obtained the records … and searched them and found that they were … of great worth unto us, insomuch that we could preserve the commandments of the Lord unto our children.
“Wherefore, it was wisdom in the Lord that we should carry them with us, as we journeyed in the wilderness towards the land of promise.”

Now, if it was wisdom for Lehi and his family to have the scriptures, it is just as wise for us today. The great worth and spiritual power of the scriptures continue undimmed in our lives today.
There has never been a people in history with the access to the Book of Mormon and other scriptures that we enjoy today. Yes, Lehi and his family were blessed to carry the brass plates with them, but they didn’t have a copy for every tent! The most important copy of the Book of Mormon is our personal copy. It is the copy that we read.
In Lehi’s vision of the tree of life, Lehi taught us the importance of personal experience with the love of God. After he partook of the fruit, Lehi saw his wife, Sariah, and his sons Nephi and Sam a little way off.
“They stood as if they knew not whither they should go.
“… I beckoned unto them,” Lehi said, “and I also did say unto them with a loud voice that they should come unto me, and partake of the fruit, which was desirable above all other fruit.
“And … they did come unto me and partake of the fruit.”
I love Lehi’s example of intentional parenting. Sariah, Nephi, and Sam were living good, righteous lives. But the Lord had something better, something sweeter for them. They didn’t know where to find it, but Lehi did. So he called to them “with a loud voice” to come to the tree of life and partake of the fruit for themselves. His direction was clear. There could be no misunderstanding.
I am the product of a similar kind of intentional parenting. When I was a young boy, maybe 11 or 12 years old, my mother asked me, “Mark, do you know for yourself, by the Holy Ghost, that the gospel is true?”
Her question surprised me. I had always tried to be a “good boy,” and I thought that was enough. But my mother, like Lehi, knew that something more was needed. I needed to act and know for myself.
I replied that I had not yet had that experience. And she didn’t seem surprised at all by my answer.
She then said something I have never forgotten. I remember her words to this day: “Heavenly Father wants you to know for yourself. But you must put in the effort. You need to read the Book of Mormon and pray to know by the Holy Ghost. Heavenly Father will answer your prayers.”
Well, I had never read the Book of Mormon before. I didn’t think I was old enough to do that. But my mother knew better.
Her question ignited in me a desire to know for myself.
So, each night, in the bedroom I shared with two of my brothers, I turned on the light above my bed and read a chapter in the Book of Mormon. Then, turning off the light, I slipped out of my bed onto my knees and prayed. I prayed more sincerely and with greater desire than I ever had before. I asked Heavenly Father to please let me know of the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon.
From the time I started reading the Book of Mormon, I felt that Heavenly Father was aware of my efforts. And I felt that I mattered to Him. As I read and prayed, comfortable, peaceful feelings rested upon me. Chapter by chapter, the light of faith was growing brighter inside my soul. In time, I realized that these feelings were confirmations of truth from the Holy Ghost. I came to know for myself that the Book of Mormon is true and that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. How grateful I am for my mother’s inspired invitation.
This experience reading the Book of Mormon as a boy started a pattern of scripture study that continues to bless me to this day. I still read the Book of Mormon and kneel in prayer. And the Holy Ghost confirms its truths over and over again.
Nephi said it right. It was wisdom in the Lord that we should carry the scriptures with us throughout our lives. The Book of Mormon is the “keystone” that makes this dispensation different from all previous dispensations. As we study the Book of Mormon and follow the living prophet, there will be no personal apostasy in our lives.
The invitation to come to the tree of life by holding fast to the word of God is not just an invitation from Lehi to his family, and it is not just an invitation from my mother for me to read and pray about the Book of Mormon. It is also an invitation from our prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, to each one of us.
“I promise,” he said, “that as you prayerfully study the Book of Mormon every day, you will make better decisions—every day. I promise that as you ponder what you study, the windows of heaven will open, and you will receive answers to your own questions and direction for your own life.”
It is my prayer that reading the Book of Mormon this year will be a joy and a blessing for each of us and will draw us ever nearer to the Savior.
Heavenly Father lives. Jesus Christ is our Savior and Redeemer. The Book of Mormon contains His words and conveys His love. President Russell M. Nelson is the Lord’s living prophet on the earth today. I know these things to be true because of the confirming witness of the Holy Ghost, which witness I first received while reading the Book of Mormon as a boy. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Doctrine and Covenants 64:33.


“The new home-centered, Church-supported integrated curriculum has the potential to unleash the power of families, as each family follows through conscientiously and carefully to transform their home into a sanctuary of faith. I promise that as you diligently work to remodel your home into a center of gospel learning, over time your Sabbath days will truly be a delight. Your children will be excited to learn and to live the Savior’s teachings, and the influence of the adversary in your life and in your home will decrease. Changes in your family will be dramatic and sustaining” (Russell M. Nelson, “Becoming Exemplary Latter-day Saints,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 113).


“Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy” (Doctrine and Covenants 11:13).


“Dispensations are time periods in which the Lord has at least one authorized servant on the earth who bears the holy priesthood and the keys, and who has a divine commission to dispense the gospel to the inhabitants of the earth” (Topics and Questions, “Dispensations,” Gospel Library).


See Moses 5:12–16.


The prophet Daniel saw our day, our dispensation, when he interpreted Nebuchadnezzar’s dream. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the stone in that dream, cut out of the mountain without hands, rolling forward to fill the whole earth (see Daniel 2:34–35, 44–45; Doctrine and Covenants 65:2).


“God the Father and Jesus Christ called upon the Prophet Joseph Smith to be the prophet of this dispensation. All divine powers of previous dispensations were to be restored through him. This dispensation of the fulness of times would not be limited in time or in location. It would not end in apostasy, and it would fill the world” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Gathering of Scattered Israel,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2006, 79–80).


Russell M. Nelson, “Opening Remarks,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 8.


See “Conversion Is Our Goal,” Come Follow Me—For Home and Church: Book of Mormon 2024, v.


Doctrine and Covenants 50:22; see also verses 17–21.


Jacob 1:3–4.


Jacob 4:6.


1 Nephi 5:21–22.


It was recently announced that 200 million copies of the Book of Mormon have been distributed in this dispensation. That is truly remarkable. The Book of Mormon has now been translated into 113 languages, with 17 new translations in process. What a blessing to have the Book of Mormon in print, digital, audio, video, and other formats. (See Ryan Jensen, “Church Distributes 200 Millionth Copy of the Book of Mormon,” Church News, Dec. 29, 2023, thechurchnews.com.)


1 Nephi 8:14–16; emphasis added.


“The most powerful spiritual influence in the life of a child is the righteous example of loving parents and grandparents who faithfully keep their own sacred covenants. Intentional parents teach their children faith in the Lord Jesus Christ so that they too ‘may know to what source they may look for a remission of their sins’ [2 Nephi 25:26]. Casual and inconsistent covenant keeping leads to spiritual casualty. The spiritual damage is often greatest on our children and grandchildren” (Kevin W. Pearson, “Are You Still Willing?,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 69).


See Doctrine and Covenants 6:22–24.


The Prophet Joseph Smith said, “I told the brethren that the Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book” (in the introduction to the Book of Mormon).


Russell M. Nelson, “The Book of Mormon: What Would Your Life Be Like without It?,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2017, 62–63.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Rejoice in the Gift of Priesthood Keys","year":"2024","month":"04"}



Rejoice in the Gift of Priesthood Keys

By President Russell M. Nelson
President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Priesthood keys govern how the priesthood of God may be used to bring about the Lord’s purposes and bless all who accept the restored gospel.


My dear brothers and sisters, today is an historic day for President Dallin H. Oaks and me. It was 40 years ago, on April 7, 1984, when we were sustained to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. We have rejoiced in each and every general conference since then, including this one. We have once again been blessed with a sacred outpouring of the Spirit. I hope you will repeatedly study the messages of this conference throughout the coming months.
When I was born, there were six functioning temples in the Church—one each in St. George, Logan, Manti, and Salt Lake City, Utah; as well as in Cardston, Alberta, Canada; and Laie, Hawaii. Two earlier temples had functioned briefly in Kirtland, Ohio, and Nauvoo, Illinois. As the body of the Church moved west, the Saints were forced to leave those two temples behind.
The Nauvoo Temple was destroyed by an arsonist’s fire. It was rebuilt and then dedicated by President Gordon B. Hinckley. The Kirtland Temple was desecrated by enemies of the Church. Later the Kirtland Temple was acquired by Community of Christ, which has owned it for many years.
Last month we announced that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has purchased the Kirtland Temple, along with several significant historic sites in Nauvoo. We greatly appreciate the cordial and mutually beneficial discussions we had with leaders from Community of Christ that led to this agreement.

The Kirtland Temple has unusual significance in the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Several events that took place there had been prophesied for millennia and were essential for the Lord’s restored Church to fulfill its latter-day mission.
The most important of these events occurred on Easter Sunday, April 3, 1836. On that day, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery experienced a series of remarkable visitations. First, the Lord Jesus Christ appeared. The Prophet recorded that the Savior’s “eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters.”
During this visitation, the Lord affirmed His identity. He said, “I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father.”
Jesus Christ then declared that He had accepted the temple as His house and made this stunning promise: “I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house.”
This significant promise applies to every dedicated temple today. I invite you to ponder what the Lord’s promise means for you personally.
Following the Savior’s visitation, Moses appeared. Moses conferred upon Joseph Smith the keys for the gathering of Israel and the return of the ten tribes.
When this vision closed, “Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham” to Joseph.
Then Elijah the prophet appeared. His appearance fulfilled Malachi’s promise that before the Second Coming, the Lord would send Elijah to “turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers.” Elijah conferred the keys of the sealing power upon Joseph Smith.
The significance of these keys being returned to the earth by three heavenly messengers under the direction of the Lord cannot be overstated. Priesthood keys constitute the authority and power of presidency. Priesthood keys govern how the priesthood of God may be used to bring about the Lord’s purposes and bless all who accept the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.
It is important to note that prior to the organization of the Church, heavenly messengers had conferred the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods upon the Prophet Joseph and had given him keys of both priesthoods. These keys gave Joseph Smith authority to organize the Church in 1830.
Then in the Kirtland Temple in 1836, the conferral of these three additional priesthood keys—namely, keys of the gathering of Israel, keys of the gospel of Abraham, and keys of the sealing power—was essential. These keys authorized Joseph Smith—and all succeeding Presidents of the Lord’s Church—to gather Israel on both sides of the veil, to bless all covenant children with the blessings of Abraham, to place a ratifying seal on priesthood ordinances and covenants, and to seal families eternally. The power of these priesthood keys is infinite and breathtaking.
Consider how your life would be different if priesthood keys had not been restored to the earth. Without priesthood keys, you could not be endowed with the power of God. Without priesthood keys, the Church could serve only as a significant teaching and humanitarian organization but not much more. Without priesthood keys, none of us would have access to essential ordinances and covenants that bind us to our loved ones eternally and allow us eventually to live with God.
Priesthood keys distinguish The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from any other organization on earth. Many other organizations can and do make your life better here in mortality. But no other organization can and will influence your life after death.
Priesthood keys give us the authority to extend all of the blessings promised to Abraham to every covenant-keeping man and woman. Temple work makes these exquisite blessings available to all of God’s children, regardless of where or when they lived or now live. Let us rejoice that priesthood keys are once again on the earth!
I invite you to consider carefully the following three statements:


The gathering of Israel is evidence that God loves all of His children everywhere.


The gospel of Abraham is further evidence that God loves all of His children everywhere. He invites all to come unto Him—“black and white, bond and free, male and female; … all are alike unto God.”


The sealing power is supernal evidence of how much God loves all of His children everywhere and wants each of them to choose to return home to Him.


Priesthood keys restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith make it possible for every covenant-keeping man and woman to enjoy incredible personal spiritual privileges. Here again, there is much we can learn from the sacred history of the Kirtland Temple.
Joseph Smith’s dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple is a tutorial about how the temple spiritually empowers you and me to meet the challenges of life in these last days. I encourage you to study that prayer, recorded in Doctrine and Covenants section 109. That dedicatory prayer, which was received by revelation, teaches that the temple is “a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God.”
This list of attributes is much more than a description of a temple. It is a promise about what will happen to those who serve and worship in the house of the Lord. They can expect to receive answers to prayer, personal revelation, greater faith, strength, comfort, increased knowledge, and increased power.
Time in the temple will help you to think celestial and to catch a vision of who you really are, who you can become, and the kind of life you can have forever. Regular temple worship will enhance the way you see yourself and how you fit into God’s magnificent plan. I promise you that.
We are also promised that in the temple we may “receive a fulness of the Holy Ghost.” Imagine what that promise means in terms of having the heavens open for each earnest seeker of eternal truth.
We are instructed that all who worship in the temple will have the power of God and angels having “charge over them.” How much does it increase your confidence to know that, as an endowed woman or man armed with the power of God, you do not have to face life alone? What courage does it give you to know that angels really will help you?
Finally, we are promised that “no combination of wickedness” will prevail over those who worship in the house of the Lord.
Understanding the spiritual privileges made possible in the temple is vital to each of us today.

My dear brothers and sisters, here is my promise. Nothing will help you more to hold fast to the iron rod than worshipping in the temple as regularly as your circumstances permit. Nothing will protect you more as you encounter the world’s mists of darkness. Nothing will bolster your testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ and His Atonement or help you understand God’s magnificent plan more. Nothing will soothe your spirit more during times of pain. Nothing will open the heavens more. Nothing!
The temple is the gateway to the greatest blessings God has in store for each of us, for the temple is the only place on earth where we may receive all of the blessings promised to Abraham. That is why we are doing all within our power, under the direction of the Lord, to make the temple blessings more accessible to members of the Church. Thus, we are pleased to announce that we plan to build a new temple in each of the following 15 locations:


Uturoa, French Polynesia


Chihuahua, Mexico


Florianópolis, Brazil


Rosario, Argentina


Edinburgh, Scotland


Brisbane, Australia south area


Victoria, British Columbia


Yuma, Arizona


Houston, Texas south area


Des Moines, Iowa


Cincinnati, Ohio


Honolulu, Hawaii


West Jordan, Utah


Lehi, Utah


Maracaibo, Venezuela


My dear brothers and sisters, I testify that this is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He stands at its head. We are His disciples.
Let us rejoice in the restoration of priesthood keys, which make it possible for you and me to enjoy every spiritual blessing we are willing and worthy to receive. I so testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


I filled the vacancy in the Quorum of the Twelve left by the January 11, 1983, death of Elder LeGrand Richards. Elder Oaks filled that which was left by the January 11, 1984, death of Mark E. Petersen.


September 9, 1924.


The dedication of the rebuilt Nauvoo Illinois Temple by President Gordon B. Hinckley occurred on June 27, 2002, the 158th anniversary of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith.


Just one week after the Prophet Joseph Smith dedicated the Kirtland Temple.


Doctrine and Covenants 110:3.


Doctrine and Covenants 110:4.


Doctrine and Covenants 110:7.


See Doctrine and Covenants 110:11.


Doctrine and Covenants 110:12. This was a perpetuation of the promise the Lord had made to Abraham thousands of years earlier (see Genesis 18:18; 1 Nephi 15:18).


See Malachi 4:5–6.


See Doctrine and Covenants 110:13–16.


See Doctrine and Covenants 13; 27:7–8, 12.


See Doctrine and Covenants 20:1–4.


When the Lord told Joseph Smith that this dispensation is the time when “nothing shall be withheld” (Doctrine and Covenants 121:28), it was because these priesthood keys had been returned to the earth.


See Doctrine and Covenants 95:8; 109:22.


See Doctrine and Covenants 132:45–46.


2 Nephi 26:33; emphasis added.


Doctrine and Covenants 109:8.


Doctrine and Covenants 109:15.


Doctrine and Covenants 109:22.


See Doctrine and Covenants 109:24–26.


Meaning the word of God.


See Doctrine and Covenants 110:12; 132:29–30.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers","year":"2024","month":"10"}



Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers

Presented by President Henry B. Eyring
Second Counselor in the First Presidency



Brothers and sisters, it will now be my privilege to present the General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church for your sustaining vote.
We ask that you please express your support in the usual way, wherever you may be. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals, we ask that you contact your stake president.
It is proposed that we sustain Russell Marion Nelson as prophet, seer, and revelator and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Dallin Harris Oaks as First Counselor in the First Presidency; and Henry Bennion Eyring as Second Counselor in the First Presidency.
Those in favor may manifest it.
Those opposed, if any, may manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain Dallin H. Oaks as President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and Jeffrey R. Holland as Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.
Those in favor, please signify.
Any opposed may manifest it.
It is proposed that we sustain the following as members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles: Jeffrey R. Holland, Dieter F. Uchtdorf, David A. Bednar, Quentin L. Cook, D. Todd Christofferson, Neil L. Andersen, Ronald A. Rasband, Gary E. Stevenson, Dale G. Renlund, Gerrit W. Gong, Ulisses Soares, and Patrick Kearon.
Those in favor, please manifest it.
Any opposed may so indicate.
It is proposed that we sustain the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles as prophets, seers, and revelators.
All in favor, please manifest it.
Contrary, if there be any, by the same sign.
We note that six new Area Seventies were sustained during the general conference leadership meetings on Thursday, October 3, and then announced on the Church’s website. We invite you to sustain these brethren in their new assignments.
Those in favor, please manifest it.
Any opposed, by the same sign.
It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers as presently constituted.
All in favor may do so by the uplifted hand.
Those opposed, if any.
Thank you, brothers and sisters, for your continued faith and prayers on behalf of the leadership of the Church.


Changes to Area Seventies

The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership session held as part of general conference:
Miguel A. Avila, Jean Pierre A. L. Haboko, Ramiro Ibarra Sanchez, George Katembo Njogu Munene, A. Enrique Texeira, Francisco Villanueva Rojas.


----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Triumph of Hope","year":"2024","month":"10"}



The Triumph of Hope

By Elder Neil L. Andersen
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Hope is a living gift, a gift that grows as we increase our faith in Jesus Christ.


My dear brothers and sisters across the world, as we begin this very special time of general conference, the eyes of heaven will certainly be focused upon us. We will hear the voice of the Lord through His servants; we will feel the “guiding, directing, [and] comforting” influence of the Holy Ghost, and our faith will be strengthened.
Three years ago, President Russell M. Nelson began general conference with these words: “Pure revelation for the questions in your heart will make this conference rewarding and unforgettable. If you have not yet sought for the ministering of the Holy Ghost to help you hear what the Lord would have you hear during these two days, I invite you to do so now. Please make this conference a time of feasting on messages from the Lord through His servants.”
The scriptures link three words powerfully together: faith, hope, charity. The gift of hope is a priceless endowment from God.
The word hope is used for many things we want to happen. For example, “I hope it won’t rain,” or “I hope our team wins.” My intent is to speak of our sacred and eternal hopes centered in Jesus Christ and the restored gospel and our “confident expectation[s] of … the promised blessings of righteousness.”


Our Hope for Eternal Life

Our hope of eternal life is assured through the grace of Christ and our own choices, allowing us the remarkable blessing of returning to our heavenly home and living forever in peace and happiness with our Heavenly Father, His Beloved Son, our faithful family and precious friends, and the righteous men and women from every continent and every century.
On earth we experience joy and sorrow as we are tested and proven. Our victory comes through faith in Jesus Christ as we triumph over our sins, difficulties, temptations, unfairness, and the challenges of this mortal life.
As we strengthen our faith in Jesus Christ, we see beyond our struggles to the blessings and promises of eternity. Like a light whose brilliance grows, hope brightens the darkened world, and we see our glorious future.



Hope Comes from God

Since the beginning, our Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son have eagerly blessed the righteous with the precious gift of hope.
After leaving the garden, Adam and Eve were taught by an angel of the promise of Jesus Christ. The gift of hope enlightened their lives. Adam declared, “My eyes are opened, and in this life I shall have joy.” Eve spoke of “the joy of [their] redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient.”
Just as the Holy Ghost brought hope to Adam, the power of the Lord’s Spirit enlightens the faithful today, illuminating the reality of eternal life.
The Savior sends us a Comforter, the Holy Ghost, a companion bringing faith, hope, and peace “not as the world giveth.”
“In the world,” the Savior said, “ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer [keep a brightness of hope]; I have overcome the world.”
In times of difficulty, we choose to trust the Lord in faith. We quietly pray, “Not my will but thine be done.” We feel the Lord’s approval for our meek willingness, and we await the promised peace the Lord will send in His chosen timing.
The Apostle Paul taught, “The God of hope [will] fill you with … joy and peace … , that ye may abound in hope,” “rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation;” “through the power of the Holy Ghost.”



A Lesson of Hope

The prophet Moroni knew firsthand about having hope in Christ during tribulation. He explained his harrowing situation:
“I am alone. … I have not … whither to go.”
“I make not myself known … lest they should destroy me.”
Remarkably, in this dark and lonely hour, Moroni records his father’s words of hope:
“If a man have faith he must needs have hope; for without faith there cannot be any hope.”
“What is it that ye shall hope for? … Ye shall have hope through the atonement of Christ and the power of his resurrection, to be raised unto life eternal.”
My brothers and sisters, hope is a living gift, a gift that grows as we increase our faith in Jesus Christ. “Faith is the substance of things hoped for.” We build this substance—the evidence blocks of our faith—through prayer, temple covenants, keeping the commandments, continually feasting on the scriptures and the words of modern-day prophets, taking the sacrament, serving others, and worshipping weekly with our fellow Saints.



A House of Hope

To fortify our hope in a time of increasing wickedness, the Lord has directed His prophet to dot the earth with His temples.
As we enter the Lord’s house, we feel the Spirit of God, verifying our hope.

The temple testifies of the empty tomb and that life beyond the veil continues for all.
For those who do not have an eternal companion, the ordinances powerfully confirm that every righteous person will receive every promised blessing.
There is sublime hope as a young couple kneels across the altar to be sealed, not just for time but for eternity.
There is an immensity of hope for us in the promises made to our posterity, whatever their current circumstances.
There is no pain, no sickness, no injustice, no suffering, nothing that can darken our hope as we believe and hold tightly to our covenants with God in the house of the Lord. It is a house of light, a house of hope.



When Hope Is Discarded

We shed tears of sorrow as we see the sadness and despair in those who have no hope in Christ.
I recently observed from a distance a couple who at one time had faith in Christ but then decided to discard their belief. They were successful in the world, and they found pleasure in their intellect and the rejection of their faith.
All seemed well until the husband, still young and energetic, suddenly fell ill and died. Like an eclipse of the sun, they had blocked the light of the Son, and the result was an eclipse of hope. The wife, in her disbelief, now felt disoriented, painfully unprepared, unable to comfort her children. Her intellect had told her that her life was in perfect order until suddenly she could see no tomorrow. Her despair brought darkness and confusion.



Hope in Heartbreaking Tragedy

Let me contrast her painful despair with another family’s hope in Christ during a heartbreaking time.
Twenty-one years ago the newborn son of my nephew Ben Andersen and his wife, Robbie, was life-flighted from their Idaho farming community to Salt Lake City. I arrived at the hospital, and Ben explained the severe, life-threatening complications with their baby’s heart. We placed our hands on Trey’s tiny head. The Lord blessed him with continued life.
Trey had heart surgery the first week of his life, and more surgeries followed. As the years passed, it became apparent that Trey would need a heart transplant. Although his physical activities were limited, his faith expanded. He wrote, “I have never felt sorry for myself because I have always known the importance of having faith in Jesus Christ and a testimony of the plan of salvation.”

Trey kept on his phone this well-known quote from President Nelson: “The joy we feel has little to do with the circumstances of our lives and everything to do with the focus of our lives.”

Trey wrote: “I have always looked forward to serving a full-time mission, but … my doctors won’t let me serve a mission until at least a year after my transplant. … I’ve put my faith in Jesus Christ.”
Trey was excited at being accepted into the accounting major at BYU beginning this semester, but even more excited in late July when he received the very anticipated telephone call to come to the hospital for his heart transplant.
“One year,” Trey said, “and I will be on my mission.”
There were great expectations as he entered the operating room. However, during the surgery there were devastating complications, and Trey never regained consciousness.
His mother, Robbie, said: “Friday had been the most heartbreaking day … just trying to wrap our minds around it. … I had stayed up late just trying to process everything. … But Saturday, I woke up with a feeling of absolute joy. It wasn’t just peace; it wasn’t denial. I felt joy for my son, and I felt joy as his mother. … Ben had gotten up a lot earlier than me, and when we finally got a chance to talk, Ben had awakened with the exact same feeling.”

Ben explained: “Clarity came to my soul as God taught me through His Holy Spirit. I awoke at 4:00 a.m. and was filled with indescribable peace and joy. How is this possible? … The passing of Trey is so very painful, and I miss him so much. But the Lord does not leave us comfortless. … I look forward to a joyful reunion.”




The Promise of Hope

Trey had noted in his journal these words from President Nelson’s general conference talk: “It doesn’t seem possible to feel joy when your child suffers with an incurable illness or when you lose your job or when your spouse betrays you. Yet that is precisely the joy the Savior offers. His joy is constant, assuring us that our ‘afflictions shall be but a small moment’ [Doctrine and Covenants 121:7] and be consecrated to our gain.”
Brothers and sisters, the peace you seek may not come as quickly as you desire, but I promise you that as you trust in the Lord, His peace will come.
May we nurture our precious faith, pressing forward with a perfect brightness of hope. I testify that our hope is our Savior, Jesus Christ. Through Him, all our righteous dreams will be realized. He is the God of hope—the triumph of hope. He lives and He loves you. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Russell N. Nelson, “Revelation for the Church, Revelation for Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 96.


Russell M. Nelson, “Pure Truth, Pure Doctrine, and Pure Revelation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 6–7.


“Have you noticed in the scriptures that hope seldom stands alone? Hope is often linked with faith. Hope and faith are commonly connected to charity. Why? Because hope is essential to faith; faith is essential to hope; faith and hope are essential to charity (see 1 Corinthians 13:13, Alma 7:24, Ether 12:28, Doctrine and Covenants 4:5). They support one another like legs on a three-legged stool. All three relate to our Redeemer.
“Faith [is rooted in] Jesus Christ. Hope centers in his atonement. Charity is manifest in the ‘pure love of Christ’ (see Moroni 7:47). These three attributes are intertwined like strands in a cable and may not always be precisely distinguished. Together, they become our tether to the celestial kingdom” (Russell M. Nelson, “A More Excellent Hope” [Brigham Young University devotional, Jan. 8, 1995], 3, speeches.byu.edu).


Gospel Topics, “Hope,” Gospel Library.


“Wherefore, whoso believeth in God might with surety hope for a better world, … even a place at the right hand of God, which hope cometh of faith, maketh an anchor to the souls of men, [making] them sure and steadfast” (Ether 12:4).


Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf said: “Allow me to acknowledge that depression and other difficult mental and emotional challenges are real, and the answer is not simply, ‘Try to be happier.’ My purpose today is not to diminish or trivialize mental health issues. If you face such challenges, I mourn with you, and I stand beside you. For some people, finding joy may include seeking help from trained mental health professionals who devote their lives to practicing their very important art. We should be thankful for such help” (“A Higher Joy,” Liahona, May 2024, 66).


Our Heavenly Father has declared that His work and glory is to bring to pass our eternal life (see Moses 1:39).


See Moses 5.


Moses 5:10.


Moses 5:11.


See Moses 5:9.


John 14:27.


John 16:33.


See Luke 22:42.


Romans 15:13.


Romans 12:12.


Romans 15:13.


Mormon 8:5.


Moroni 1:1.


Moroni 7:42.


Moroni 7:41.


Hebrews 11:1. In the Joseph Smith Translation it reads, “Faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen” (in the Bible appendix). We see the assurance of our faith in the blessings that come to those who keep the covenants they have made with the Lord.


Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 82.


Talk given by Robbie Andersen at the funeral of her son Trey Andersen, August 12, 2024. Trey had his surgery on July 31, 2024. He passed from this life on August 3, 2024.


Talk given by Ben Andersen at the funeral of his son Trey Andersen, August 12, 2024.


Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” 82.


See 2 Nephi 31:20. The hope Nephi speaks of is perfect and bright because it is centered in Christ. He is perfect, and His Atonement, which offers this bright hope, is also perfect.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Live Up to Your Privileges","year":"2024","month":"10"}



Live Up to Your Privileges

By President Emily Belle Freeman
Young Women General President

Learn how priesthood ordinances and covenant promises will allow God’s power to flow into your life.


Recently my husband, Greg, received a diagnosis that would require an intensive surgery and months of chemotherapy. Like many of you who have faced a similar situation, we immediately began praying for heaven’s help and God’s power. The Sunday following Greg’s surgery, the sacrament was delivered to our hospital room.
On this occasion, I was the only one taking the sacrament. One piece of bread. One cup of water. At church, my mind often focuses on the delivery system of the sacrament—the preparing, the blessing, and the passing. But on that afternoon, I pondered the gift of God’s power available to me through the sacred ordinance itself and the covenant promise I was making as I took that piece of bread and that cup of water. This was a time when I needed power from heaven. In the midst of great heartache, exhaustion, and uncertainty, I wondered about this gift that would allow me to draw upon the power from Him that I so desperately needed. Partaking of the sacrament would increase my companionship with the Spirit of the Lord, allowing me to draw upon the gift of God’s power, including the ministering of angels and the Savior’s enabling strength to overcome.
I don’t think I had ever realized with this much clarity before that it’s not only who officiates in the ordinance that matters—what the ordinance and our covenant promise unlock also deserves the focus of our attention. Priesthood ordinances and covenant promises allow God to sanctify us and then work wonders in our lives. But how does this happen?
First, in order for an ordinance to manifest the power of God in our lives, it must be done with authority from the Son of God. The delivery system is important. The Father entrusted Jesus Christ with the keys and authority to oversee the delivery of His priesthood ordinances. Under His direction, within the order of His priesthood, the sons of God have been ordained to stand in place of the Son of God.
Second, we don’t just make covenant promises—we must keep them. In many gospel ordinances, we make sacred covenants with God; He promises to bless us as we keep those covenants. Do we realize it is the combination of priesthood ordinances along with the keeping of covenant promises that allows us to draw upon God’s power?
That afternoon I wondered if I, a covenant daughter of God, fully understood how to access the gift of God’s power through priesthood ordinances and if I truly recognized how God’s power works within me.
In 2019 a prophetic invitation was extended to the women of the Church, teaching us how to draw the Savior’s power into our lives. President Russell M. Nelson invited us to study Doctrine and Covenants 25, a revelation given to Emma Smith in Harmony, Pennsylvania. Accepting that invitation changed my life.
Last month I had an unexpected opportunity to visit Harmony. There, under the maple trees, the priesthood was restored to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. Close to those trees is the front door of Joseph and Emma’s home. Across from the fireplace in that home there is a window. I stood at that window and wondered what Emma might have thought as she looked out across the trees.
In July of 1830, Emma was 26 years old; she was so young. She was three and a half years into her marriage. She had lost a baby boy—her first. His little grave is just down the lane from her home. As I stood at that window, it was not hard for me to imagine what might have filled her thoughts. Surely she worried about their finances, about the increasing persecution that threatened their safety, about their future. And yet the work of God was everywhere around her. Did she also wonder about her place in the plan, her purpose in His kingdom, and her potential in the eyes of God?
I think she may have.
Just across the way, the gift of God’s priesthood authority and keys had been restored to the earth. This was a time when Emma actually needed power from heaven. In the midst of great heartache, exhaustion, and uncertainty, I imagine Emma wondered about this gift of God’s priesthood that could unlock the power from Him that she so desperately needed.
But Emma didn’t just stand at that window and wonder.
While the Prophet Joseph was being tutored in keys, offices, ordinances, and how to assist in the service of the priesthood, the Lord Himself, through His prophet, gave a revelation to Emma. Not Nauvoo-Relief-Society-president Emma—this revelation was given to 26-year-old Emma in Harmony. Through revelation, Emma would learn about the inward sanctification and covenant connection that would increase the ability of those priesthood ordinances to work in her life.
First, the Lord reminded Emma of her place in His plan, including who she was and whose she was—a daughter in His kingdom. She was invited to “walk in the paths of virtue,” a path that included ordinances that would unlock God’s power if Emma held on to her covenants.
Second, in her season of deep mourning, the Lord gave her purpose. Emma didn’t just have a front-row seat to the Restoration; she was an essential participant in the work taking place. She would be set apart “to expound scriptures, and to exhort the church.” Her time would “be given to writing, and to learning much.” Emma was given a sacred role to help prepare the Saints to worship; their songs unto the Lord would be received as prayers and “answered with a blessing upon their heads.”
Last, the Lord outlined a process of inward sanctification that would prepare Emma for exaltation. “Except thou do this,” the Lord explained to her, “where I am you cannot come.”
If we read section 25 carefully, we discover an important progression taking place. Emma would go from being a daughter in the kingdom to “elect lady” to queen. Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood ordinances, combined with the keeping of her covenant promises, would increase her companionship with the Spirit and with angels, empowering her to navigate her life with divine guidance. Through His divine power, God would heal her heart, enlarge her capacity, and transform her into the version of herself He knew she could become. And through the ordinances of the Melchizedek Priesthood, “the power of godliness [would be] manifest” in her life, and the Lord would part the veil so she could receive understanding from Him. This is what it looks like for God’s power to work within us.
President Russell M. Nelson taught:
“Everything that happened in [Harmony] has profound implications for your lives. The restoration of the priesthood, along with the Lord’s counsel to Emma, can guide and bless each of you. …
“… Accessing the power of God in your life requires the same things that the Lord instructed Emma and each of [us] to do.”
There were important things happening on both sides of that window in Harmony, including the revelation given to the elect lady whom the Lord had called—a revelation that would strengthen, encourage, and instruct Emma Smith, God’s daughter.
When our granddaughter Isabelle was given a name and a blessing, her father blessed her with an understanding of the priesthood; that she would continue to grow in and learn about the blessing it would provide in her life; and that her faith in the priesthood would grow as she continued to grow in understanding.
It is not often a little girl is blessed to understand the priesthood and to learn how those priesthood ordinances and covenant promises will help her to access God’s power. But I remembered Emma and thought to myself, Why not? This tiny daughter has the potential to become an elect lady in His kingdom and eventually a queen. Through His priesthood ordinances and the keeping of her covenant promises, God’s power will work in and through her to help her overcome whatever life brings and become the woman God knows she can become. This is something I want each girl in the kingdom to understand.
“Live up to your privileges.”
Learn how priesthood ordinances and covenant promises will allow God’s power to flow into your life with greater efficacy, working in and through you, empowering and equipping you to reach your full purpose and potential.
Carefully study and ponder the Aaronic and the Melchizedek Priesthood ordinances, the covenant promises we make with each, and the power of God we access through those ordinances.
Remember, it’s not only who officiates in the ordinance that matters; what the ordinance and your covenant promise unlock also deserves the focus of your attention.
Partaking of the bread and water is a weekly reminder of His power working in you to help you overcome. Wearing the garment of the holy priesthood is a daily reminder of the gift of His power working in you to help you become.
We all have access to the gift of God’s power.
Every time we partake of the sacrament.
Every time we cross the threshold of a temple.
This is the highlight of my Sabbath. This is why I cherish my temple recommend.
“In the ordinances thereof, the power of godliness is manifest.”
Of this gift I bear witness in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Doctrine and Covenants 107:20.


Elder D. Todd Christofferson taught: “In all the ordinances, especially those of the temple, we are endowed with power from on high. This ‘power of godliness’ comes in the person and by the influence of the Holy Ghost. … I testify that God will keep His promises to you as you honor your covenants with Him. … He will, by His Holy Spirit, fill you with godly power” (”The Power of Covenants,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2009, 22, 23).


See Dallin H. Oaks, “The Aaronic Priesthood and the Sacrament,” Ensign, Nov. 1998, 39; Liahona, Jan. 1999, 45.


“Every man and every woman who participates in priesthood ordinances and who makes and keeps covenants with God has direct access to the power of God” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” Liahona, Oct. 2022, 10).


See Joshua 3:5, footnote a. Elder Dale G. Renlund explained: “Through these covenants, we have greater access to [the Lord’s] power. To be clear, baptismal and temple covenants are not, in and of themselves, the source of power. The source of power is the Lord Jesus Christ and our Heavenly Father. Making and keeping covenants create a conduit for Their power in our lives” (“The Powerful, Virtuous Cycle of the Doctrine of Christ,” Liahona, May 2024, 82).


See Doctrine and Covenants 107:1–3; Joseph Smith Translation, Hebrews 7:3 (in the Bible appendix); Alma 13:2, 16. President Dallin H. Oaks taught: “From the scriptures we also know that those who officiate in the priesthood act in behalf of the Lord (see Doctrine and Covenants 1:38; 36:2). I will now suggest how teachers and priests and deacons should carry out their sacred responsibilities to act in behalf of the Lord in preparing, administering, and passing the sacrament” (“The Aaronic Priesthood and the Sacrament,” Ensign, Nov. 1998, 39; Liahona, Jan. 1999, 45).


See General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 3.5.1–2, Gospel Library.


See Doctrine and Covenants 107:18–20; Philippians 1:6.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Spiritual Treasures,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 77.


See “Joseph and Emma Smith’s Home” (history.ChurchofJesusChrist.org) for more detail about the reproduction of the Smith home at the Church historic site in Harmony, Pennsylvania.


The authority and keys of the priesthood allow God’s power to flow into the lives of those who receive priesthood ordinances and make and keep the associated covenants (see General Handbook, 3.5, Gospel Library).


See Joseph Smith—History 1:71, note.


See Doctrine and Covenants 25.


See Doctrine and Covenants 25:1.


Doctrine and Covenants 25:2.


See Doctrine and Covenants 25:13. “The word covenant is of Latin origin, con venire, and literally means a ‘coming together.’ In the context of the priesthood, a ‘covenant’ is a coming together or an agreement between God and man. It presupposes that God and man come together to make a contract, to agree on promises, stipulations, privileges, and responsibilities. …
“A covenant made in this manner is immutable and unchangeable. It anchors the soul; it creates a steadfast and sure foundation for future expectations” (Dale G. Renlund and Ruth Lybbert Renlund, The Melchizedek Priesthood: Understanding the Doctrine, Living the Principles [2018], 60).


Doctrine and Covenants 25:7.


Doctrine and Covenants 25:8.


Doctrine and Covenants 25:12.


See Doctrine and Covenants 25:15.


Doctrine and Covenants 25:15. President Dallin H. Oaks taught: “The ordinance of baptism and its associated covenants are requirements for entrance into the celestial kingdom. The ordinances and associated covenants of the temple are requirements for exaltation in the celestial kingdom, which is eternal life, ‘the greatest of all the gifts of God’ [Doctrine and Covenants 14:7]” (“Covenants and Responsibilities,” Liahona, May 2024, 96).


See Doctrine and Covenants 25:1.


Doctrine and Covenants 25:3.


See Doctrine and Covenants 25:15.


See Dallin H. Oaks, “The Aaronic Priesthood and the Sacrament,” Ensign, Nov. 1998, 38–39; Liahona, Jan. 1999, 44–45. President Oaks taught:
“In a closely related way, these ordinances of the Aaronic Priesthood are also vital to the ministering of angels. …
“… Angelic messages can be delivered by a voice or merely by thoughts or feelings communicated to the mind” (“The Aaronic Priesthood and the Sacrament,” Ensign, Nov. 1998, 38, 39; Liahona, Jan. 1999, 44, 45).
In addition, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave this promise when speaking to Relief Society sisters: “If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates” (Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith [2011], 454).


See Doctrine and Covenants 84:19–20.


See Doctrine and Covenants 107:18–19.


Russell M. Nelson, “Spiritual Treasures,” 77. “Willard Richards reported: ‘President Joseph Smith read the revelation [given] to Emma Smith … and stated that … not she alone, but others, may attain to the same blessings’” (Teachings: Joseph Smith, 453–54). See also Nauvoo Relief Society Minute Book, March 17, 1842, in The First Fifty Years of Relief Society: Key Documents in Latter-day Saint Women’s History (2016), 1.2.1, churchhistorianspress.org.


See Doctrine and Covenants 24, section heading. This states that “the following three revelations were given at this time to strengthen, encourage, and instruct.”


Teachings: Joseph Smith, 454.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Spiritual Treasures,” 77. “I entreat you to study prayerfully all the truths you can find about priesthood power. You might begin with Doctrine and Covenants sections 84 and 107. Those sections will lead you to other passages. The scriptures and teachings by modern prophets, seers, and revelators are filled with these truths. As your understanding increases and as you exercise faith in the Lord and His priesthood power, your ability to draw upon this spiritual treasure that the Lord has made available will increase” (Russell M. Nelson, “Spiritual Treasures,” 79).


See Doctrine and Covenants 109:22.


Doctrine and Covenants 84:20.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"God’s Favourite","year":"2024","month":"10"}


God’s Favourite

By Elder Karl D. Hirst
Of the Seventy

Being filled with God’s love shields us in life’s storms but also makes the happy moments happier.


Before I begin, I should tell you that two of my children have passed out whilst speaking at pulpits, and I have never felt more connected to them than in this moment. I’ve got more on my mind than just the trapdoor.
Our family has six children, who sometimes tease one another that they are the favourite child. Each has different reasons for being preferred. Our love for each of our children is pure and fulfilling and complete. We could not love any one of them any more than another—with each child’s birth came the most beautiful expansion of our love. I most relate to my Heavenly Father’s love for me through the love that I feel for my children.
As they each rehearse their claims to be the most loved child, you might have thought that our family had never had an untidy bedroom. The sense of blemishes in the relationship between parent and child is diminished with a focus on love.
At some point, perhaps because I can see that we are heading toward an inevitable family riot, I’ll say something like, “OK, you have worn me down, but I am not going to announce it; you know which one of you is my favourite.” My goal is that each one of the six feels victorious and all-out war is avoided—at least until next time!
In his Gospel, John describes himself as “the disciple whom Jesus loved,” as if that arrangement were somehow unique. I like to think that this was because John felt so completely loved by Jesus. Nephi gave me a similar sense when he wrote, “I glory in my Jesus.” Of course, the Saviour isn’t Nephi’s any more than He is John’s, and yet the personal nature of Nephi’s relationship with “his” Jesus led him to that tender description.
Isn’t it wonderful that there are times when we can feel so fully and personally noticed and loved? Nephi can call Him “his” Jesus, and so can we. Our Saviour’s love is the “highest, noblest, strongest kind of love,” and He provides until we are “filled.” Divine love never runs dry, and we are each a cherished favourite. God’s love is where, as circles on a Venn diagram, we all overlap. Whichever parts of us seem different, His love is where we find togetherness.
Is it any surprise that the greatest commandments are to love God and to love those around us? When I see people showing Christlike love for one another, it feels to me as if that love contains more than just their love; it is love that also has divinity in it. When we love one another in this way, as completely and fully as we can, heaven gets involved too.
So if someone we care about seems distant from a sense of divine love, we can follow this pattern—by doing things that bring us closer to God ourselves and then doing things that bring us closer to them—an unspoken beckoning to come to Christ.
I wish I could sit down with you and ask you what circumstances cause you to feel God’s love. Which verses of scripture, which particular acts of service? Where would you be? What music? In whose company? General conference is a rich place to learn about connecting with heaven’s love.
But perhaps you feel a long way from the love of God. Maybe there is a chorus of voices of discouragement and darkness that weighs into your thoughts, messages telling you that you are too wounded and confused, too weak and overlooked, too different or disoriented to warrant heavenly love in any real way. If you hear those ideas, then please hear this: those voices are just wrong. We can confidently disregard brokenness in any way disqualifying us from heavenly love—every time we sing the hymn that reminds us that our beloved and flawless Saviour chose to be “bruised, broken, [and] torn for us,” every time we take broken bread. Surely Jesus removes all shame from the broken. Through His brokenness, He became perfect, and He can make us perfect in spite of our brokenness. Broken, lonely, torn, and bruised He was—and we may feel we are—but separated from the love of God we are not. “Broken people, perfect love,” as the song goes.
You might know something secret about yourself that makes you feel unlovable. However right you might be about what you know about yourself, you are wrong to think that you have put yourself beyond the reach of God’s love. We are sometimes cruel and impatient toward ourselves in ways that we could never imagine being toward anyone else. There is much for us to do in this life, but self-loathing and shameful self-condemnation are not on that list. However misshapen we might feel we are, His arms are not shortened. No. They are always long enough to “[reach our] reaching” and embrace each one of us.
When we don’t feel the warmth of divine love, it hasn’t gone away. God’s own words are that “the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; but [His] kindness shall not depart from [us].” So, just to be clear, the idea that God has stopped loving should be so far down the list of possible explanations in life that we don’t get to it until after the mountains have left and the hills are gone!
I really enjoy this symbolism of mountains being evidence of the certainty of God’s love. That powerful symbolism weaves into accounts of those who go to the mountains to receive revelation and Isaiah’s description of “the mountain of the Lord’s house” being “established in the top of the mountains.” The house of the Lord is the home of our most precious covenants and a place for us all to retreat and sink deeply into the evidence of our Father’s love for us. I have also enjoyed the comfort that comes to my soul when I wrap myself more tightly in my baptismal covenant and find someone who is mourning a loss or grieving a disappointment and I try to help them hold and process their feelings. Are these ways that we can become more immersed in the precious covenantal love hesed?
So if God’s love does not leave us, why don’t we always feel it? Just to manage your expectations: I don’t know. But being loved is definitely not the same as feeling loved, and I have a few thoughts that might help you as you pursue your answers to that question.
Perhaps you are wrestling with grief, depression, betrayal, loneliness, disappointment, or other powerful intrusion into your ability to feel God’s love for you. If so, these things can dull or suspend our ability to feel as we might otherwise feel. For a season at least, perhaps you will not be able to feel His love, and knowledge will have to suffice. But I wonder if you could experiment—patiently—with different ways of expressing and receiving divine love. Can you take a step back from whatever is in front of you and maybe another step and another, until you see a wider landscape, wider and wider still if necessary, until you are literally “thinking celestial” because you are looking at the stars and remembering worlds without number and through them their Creator?
Birdsong, feeling the sun or a breeze or rain on my skin, and times when nature puts my senses in awe of God—each has had a part in providing me with heavenly connection. Perhaps the comfort of faithful friends will help. Maybe music? Or serving? Have you kept a record or journal of times when your connection with God was clearer to you? Perhaps you could invite those you trust to share their sources of divine connection with you as you search for relief and understanding.
I wonder, if Jesus were to choose a place where you and He could meet, a private place where you would be able to have a singular focus on Him, might He choose your unique place of personal suffering, the place of your deepest need, where no one else can go? Somewhere you feel so lonely that you must truly be all alone but you aren’t quite, a place to which perhaps only He has travelled but actually has already prepared to meet you there when you arrive? If you are waiting for Him to come, might He already be there and within reach?
If you do feel filled with love in this season of your life, please try and hold on to it as effectively as a sieve holds water. Splash it everywhere you go. One of the miracles of the divine economy is that when we try to share Jesus’s love, we find ourselves being filled up in a variation of the principle that “whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.”
Being filled with God’s love shields us in life’s storms but also makes the happy moments happier—our joyful days, when there is sunshine in the sky, are made even brighter by the sunshine in our souls.
Let’s become “rooted and grounded” in our Jesus and in His love. Let’s look for and treasure experiences of feeling His love and power in our lives. The joy of the gospel is available to all: not just the happy, not just the downcast. Joy is our purpose, not the gift of our circumstances. We have every good reason to “rejoice and be filled with love towards God and all men.” Let’s get full. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


John 21:20; see also John 13:23; 19:26; 20:2; 21:7.


2 Nephi 33:6; emphasis added.


Bible Dictionary, “Charity.”


In the Holy Land: Matthew 14:15–20. And in the Americas: 3 Nephi 27:16.


See Matthew 22:35–40.


See 1 John 4:12.


For the Strength of Youth: A Guide for Making Choices asks that we “help [others] feel Heavenly Father’s love through [us]” ([2022], 12).


“Jesus of Nazareth, Savior and King,” Hymns, no. 181; see also Isaiah 53:5; Matthew 26:26.


President Russell M. Nelson explained: “Just prior to [the Savior’s] crucifixion, He said that on ‘the third day I shall be perfected’ [Luke 13:32; emphasis added]. Think of that! The sinless, errorless Lord—already perfect by our mortal standards—proclaimed his own state of perfection yet to be in the future. His eternal perfection would follow his resurrection and receipt of ‘all power … in heaven and in earth’ [Matthew 28:18; see also Doctrine and Covenants 93:2–23]” (“Perfection Pending,” Ensign, Nov. 1995, 87). The prophet Moroni invited all to “come unto Christ, and be perfected in him, and deny yourselves of all ungodliness; and if ye shall deny yourselves of all ungodliness, and love God with all your might, mind and strength, then is his grace sufficient for you, that by his grace ye may be perfect in Christ” (Moroni 10:32).


“Savior of My Soul,” 2024 Youth Album, ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See Isaiah 59:1.


“Where Can I Turn for Peace?,” Hymns, no. 129.


Isaiah 54:10.


For example, Nephi (see 1 Nephi 17:7), Moses (see Exodus 19:3), the eleven disciples (see Matthew 28:16), and the Saviour (see Matthew 14:23); see also Psalm 24:3.


Isaiah 2:2; see also verse 3. This symbolism causes me to consider further the Lord’s purposes in providing hundreds of temples for His children throughout the world.


My experience bears out the truth of President Nelson’s promise that the safest place to be living is inside our temple covenants (see “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 96).


President Nelson has assured us:
“Time in the temple will help you to think celestial and to catch a vision of who you really are, who you can become, and the kind of life you can have forever. Regular temple worship will enhance the way you see yourself and how you fit into God’s magnificent plan. I promise you that. …
“… Nothing will soothe your spirit more during times of pain. Nothing will open the heavens more. Nothing!” (“Rejoice in the Gift of Priesthood Keys,” Liahona, May 2024, 121, 122).


See Mosiah 18:8–10, 13. “The baptismal covenant is a public witness to Heavenly Father of three specific commitments: to serve God, to keep His commandments, and to be willing to take on the name of Jesus Christ. The other facets that are frequently associated with the baptismal covenant—that we ‘bear one another’s burdens,’ ‘mourn with those that mourn,’ and ‘comfort those that [are] in need of comfort’ [Mosiah 18:8, 9]—are fruits of making the covenant rather than part of the actual covenant. These facets are important because they are what a converted soul would naturally do” (Dale G. Renlund, “Stronger and Closer Connection to God through Multiple Covenants” [Brigham Young University devotional, Mar. 5, 2024], speeches.byu.edu).


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” Liahona, Oct. 2022, 4–11.


See Russell M. Nelson “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 117, 118.


Matthew 16:25.


Ephesians 3:17.


See 2 Nephi 2:25; Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 81–84.


Mosiah 2:4.


See Moroni 7:48.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"“This Is My Gospel”—“This Is My Church”","year":"2024","month":"10"}


“This Is My Gospel”—“This Is My Church”

By Elder Dale G. Renlund
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

This is the Savior’s gospel, and this is His Church (see 3 Nephi 27:21; Mosiah 26:22; 27:13). The combination of the two is powerful and transformative.


For centuries, black powder was the most powerful explosive available. It could launch cannon balls, but it wasn’t effective for most mining and road construction projects. It was just too weak to shatter rock.
In 1846 an Italian chemist named Ascanio Sobrero synthesized a new explosive, nitroglycerin. This oily fluid was at least a thousand times more powerful than black powder. It could easily shatter rock. Unfortunately, nitroglycerin was unstable. If you dropped it from a small height, it’d blow up. If it got too hot, it’d blow up. If it got too cold, it’d blow up. Even placed in a cool, dark room and left alone, it’d eventually blow up. Most countries banned its transportation, and many banned its manufacture.
In 1860 a Swedish scientist named Alfred Nobel began trying to stabilize nitroglycerin. After seven years of experimentation, he achieved his goal by absorbing nitroglycerin into a nearly worthless substance known as diatomaceous earth, or kieselguhr. Kieselguhr is a porous rock that can be crumbled into a fine powder. When mixed with nitroglycerin, kieselguhr absorbs the nitroglycerin, and the resultant paste can be shaped into “sticks.” In this form, nitroglycerin was much more stable. It could be safely stored, transported, and used with undiminished explosive power. Nobel named the combination of nitroglycerin and kieselguhr “dynamite.”
Dynamite changed the world. It also made Nobel wealthy. Without a stabilizer, nitroglycerin was just too hazardous to be commercially valuable, as Ascanio Sobrero found out. By itself, as I mentioned, kieselguhr was of little value. But the combination of the two components made dynamite transformative and precious.
In a similar way, the combination of the gospel of Jesus Christ and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints provides powerful and transformative benefits for us. The gospel is perfect, but a divinely commissioned church is required to preach it, maintain its purity, and administer its sacred ordinances with the Savior’s power and authority.
Consider the combination of the Savior’s gospel and His Church as established by the Book of Mormon prophet Alma. The Church was responsible for preaching “nothing save it were repentance and faith on the Lord, who [would redeem] his people.” Using God’s authority, the Church was responsible for administering the ordinance of baptism “in the name of the Lord, as a witness [of entering] into a covenant with him [to] serve him and keep his commandments.” The people who were baptized took on themselves the name of Jesus Christ, joined His Church, and were promised great power through an outpouring of the Spirit.
People flocked to the Waters of Mormon to hear Alma preach the gospel. Though they revered those waters and the surrounding forests, the Lord’s Church was not a location or a building, nor is it today. The Church is simply ordinary people, disciples of Jesus Christ, gathered and organized into a divinely appointed structure that helps the Lord accomplish His purposes. The Church is the instrument through which we learn the central role of Jesus Christ in Heavenly Father’s plan. The Church offers the authoritative way for individuals to participate in ordinances and make lasting covenants with God. Keeping those covenants draws us closer to God, gives us access to His power, and transforms us into who He intends us to become.
Just as dynamite without nitroglycerin is unremarkable, the Savior’s Church is special only if it is built on His gospel. Without the Savior’s gospel and the authority to administer the ordinances thereof, the Church isn’t exceptional.
Without the stabilizing effect of kieselguhr, nitroglycerin had limited value as an explosive. As history has shown, without the Lord’s Church, humanity’s understanding of His gospel was likewise unstable—prone to doctrinal drift and subject to the influence of different religions, cultures, and philosophies. An amalgamation of those influences has been manifested in every dispensation leading up to this last one. Though the gospel was initially revealed in its purity, the interpretation and application of that gospel gradually took on a form of godliness that lacked power because the divinely authorized framework was absent.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints enables access to God’s power because it is authorized by Him both to teach the doctrine of Christ and to offer the gospel’s saving and exalting ordinances. The Savior yearns to forgive our sins, help us access His power, and transform us. He suffered for our sins and longs to pardon us from the punishment that we otherwise would deserve. He wants us to become holy and be perfected in Him.
Jesus Christ has the power to do this. He didn’t simply sympathize with our imperfections and lament our eternal condemnation in consequence of sin. No, He went beyond that, infinitely beyond that, and restored His Church to enable access to His power.
The core of the gospel that the Church teaches is that Jesus Christ bore “our griefs, and carried our sorrows.” He had “laid on him the iniquity of us all.” He “endured the cross,” broke “the bands of death,” “ascended into heaven, and … sat down on the right hand of God, to claim of the Father his rights of mercy.” The Savior did all this because He loves His Father and He loves us. He has already paid the infinite price so He can “[claim] all those who have faith in him [and advocate]” for them—for us. Jesus Christ wants nothing more than for us to repent and come unto Him so that He can justify and sanctify us. In this desire, He is relentless and unwavering.
The access to God’s covenantal power and His covenantal love is through His Church. The combination of the Savior’s gospel and His Church transforms our lives. It transformed my maternal grandparents. My grandfather Oskar Andersson worked in a shipyard on Högmarsö, an island in the Stockholm archipelago. His wife, Albertina, and their children lived on the Swedish mainland. Once every two weeks, on Saturday, Oskar rowed his boat home for the weekend before returning to Högmarsö on Sunday evening. One day, while on Högmarsö, he heard two American missionaries preach the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. Oskar felt that what he heard was pure truth, and he was filled with unspeakable joy.
The next time he returned home, Oskar excitedly told Albertina all about the missionaries. He explained that he believed what they taught. He asked her to read the pamphlets they had given him, and he told her that he didn’t think that any of their future children should be baptized as infants. Albertina was furious and threw the pamphlets on the rubbish heap. Not much was said between them before Oskar returned to work on Sunday evening.
As soon as he was gone, Albertina retrieved those pamphlets. She carefully compared their doctrine with the teachings in her well-worn Bible. She was astonished to feel that what she read was true. The next time Oskar returned home, he received a warm welcome, as did the copy of the Book of Mormon he brought with him. Albertina eagerly read, again comparing the doctrine to that in her Bible. Like Oskar, she recognized pure truth and was filled with unspeakable joy.
Oskar, Albertina, and their children moved to Högmarsö to be close to the few Church members there. A week after Oskar and Albertina were baptized in 1916, Oskar was called to be the group leader on Högmarsö. Like many converts, Oskar and Albertina faced criticism because of their new faith. Local farmers refused to sell them milk, so Oskar rowed across the fjord every day to purchase milk from a more tolerant farmer.
Yet during the ensuing years, Church membership on Högmarsö increased, in part because of Albertina’s powerful testimony and burning missionary zeal. When the group became a branch, Oskar was called as the branch president.
Members of that Högmarsö branch revered that island. This was their Waters of Mormon. This was where they came to a knowledge of their Redeemer.
Over the years, as they kept their baptismal covenant, Oskar and Albertina were transformed by the power of Jesus Christ. They longed to make more covenants and receive their temple blessings. To obtain those blessings, they permanently emigrated from their home in Sweden to Salt Lake City in 1949. Oskar had served as the leader of the members on Högmarsö for 33 years.
The combination of nitroglycerin and kieselguhr made dynamite valuable; the combination of the gospel of Jesus Christ and His Church is beyond price. Oskar and Albertina heard about the restored gospel because a prophet of God had called, assigned, and sent missionaries to Sweden. By divine commission, missionaries taught the doctrine of Christ and by priesthood authority baptized Oskar and Albertina. As members, Oskar and Albertina continued learning, developing, and serving others. They became Latter-day Saints because they kept the covenants they made.
The Savior refers to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as “my church” because He commissioned it to accomplish His purposes—preaching His gospel, offering His ordinances and covenants, and making it possible for His power to justify and sanctify us. Without His Church, there is no authority, no preaching of revealed truths in His name, no ordinances or covenants, no manifestation of the power of godliness, no transformation into who God wants us to become, and God’s plan for His children is set at naught. The Church in this dispensation is integral to His plan.
I invite you to commit yourself more fully to the Savior, His gospel, and His Church. As you do so, you will find that the combination of the Savior’s gospel and His Church brings power into your life. This power is far greater than dynamite. It’ll shatter the rocks in your way, transform you into an inheritor in God’s kingdom. And you will be “filled with that joy which is unspeakable and full of glory.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Black powder is a mixture of potassium nitrate (saltpeter), sulfur, and charcoal. It is classified as a low explosive or a low-yield explosive because of its relatively slow decomposition rate, burning at subsonic speeds. High explosives or high-yield explosives detonate rather than burn, producing a supersonic shock wave.


Dynamite enabled “an unprecedented surge in the creation of rail tunnels, sewer systems, and subways around the world—major engineering projects that would have been impossible to [accomplish] without the controlled explosions [that it allowed]. Almost all the iconic engineering triumphs of the [late 19th and early 20th centuries]—the London Underground, the Brooklyn Bridge, the Transcontinental Railroad, [and] the Panama Canal—relied extensively on the new explosive” (Steven Johnson, The Infernal Machine: A True Story of Dynamite, Terror, and the Rise of the Modern Detective [2024], 24).


Because nitroglycerin itself was not commercially viable, Ascanio Sobrero did not become wealthy because of his invention. However, when Alfred Nobel built a dynamite factory at Avigliana, Italy, in 1873, Sobrero was appointed as a well-paid adviser in recognition of his discovery of nitroglycerin. Sobrero held that appointment until his death in 1888. (See G. I. Brown, The Big Bang: A History of Explosives [1998], 106.)


For the history of black powder, nitroglycerin, and dynamite, see Brown, The Big Bang, 1–121.


The gospel of Jesus Christ is synonymous with the doctrine of Christ.


See Mosiah 18:7, 20; 25:15, 22.


Mosiah 18:10.


See 2 Nephi 31:13.


See Mosiah 18:17; 25:18, 23; Alma 4:4–5; Helaman 3:24–26; 3 Nephi 28:18, 23.


See 2 Nephi 31:12–14; Mosiah 18:10.


The Church is key to offering sacred covenants to Heavenly Father’s children. This is why, during the endowment in temples, members covenant to keep the law of consecration. This means that they “dedicate their time, talents, and everything with which the Lord has blessed them to building up Jesus Christ’s Church on the earth” (General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 27.2, Gospel Library).


See Russell M. Nelson, “Spiritual Treasures,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 77.


See Mosiah 18:22; Moses 6:68; Guide to the Scriptures, “Sons and Daughters of God,” Gospel Library.


See 3 Nephi 27:13–21.


See Articles of Faith 1:5.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Rejoice in the Gift of Priesthood Keys,” Liahona, May 2024, 121; 3 Nephi 27:9–11.


The Savior “gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers” so that “we [could] all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, … that we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive” (Ephesians 4:11, 13–14).


Syncretism is the technical term for the amalgamation of different religions, cultures, or schools of thought.


See Joseph Smith—History 1:19.


See “The Restoration of the Fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ: A Bicentennial Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library. The proclamation was read by President Russell M. Nelson as part of his message at the 190th Annual General Conference, April 5, 2020, in Salt Lake City, Utah (see “Hear Him,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2020, 91–92).


We can access God’s power by exercising faith in Jesus Christ, repenting of our sins, and keeping the covenants we make with Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ in ordinances such as baptism, the endowment, and the sacrament.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Justification, Justify,” Gospel Library.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Sanctification,” Gospel Library.


See Moroni 10:32–33.


See Hebrews 4:15; see also footnote a.


See Doctrine and Covenants 19:15–18.


See Isaiah 53:4–12.


Hebrews 12:2.


Mosiah 15:23.


Moroni 7:27–28; see also Doctrine and Covenants 45:3–5.


See Mosiah 18:30.


See Inger Höglund and Caj-Aage Johansson, Steg i Tro: Jesu Kristi Kyrka av Sista Dagars Heliga i Sverige 1850–2000 (2000), 66–67.


Doctrine and Covenants 115:4.


See Doctrine and Covenants 84:19–21.


If you receive what the Lord’s Church offers, you can be perfected in Christ before His Church is perfected, if it ever is. His goal is to perfect you, not His Church. His goal has never been to, metaphorically, turn kieselguhr into diamond; His goal has been to refine you into pure gold, to save and exalt you as a co-inheritor with Him in the kingdom of our Heavenly Father. But that needs to become your goal, too. It is your choice.


Helaman 5:44.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Trusting Our Father","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Trusting Our Father

By Elder David P. Homer
Of the Seventy

God trusts us to make many important decisions, and in all matters He asks us to trust Him.


On June 1, 1843, Addison Pratt left Nauvoo, Illinois, to preach the gospel in the Hawaiian Islands, leaving his wife, Louisa Barnes Pratt, to care for their young family.
In Nauvoo, as persecutions intensified, forcing the Saints to leave, and later at Winter Quarters as they prepared to migrate to the Salt Lake Valley, Louisa faced the decision of whether to make the journey. It would have been easier to stay and to wait for Addison to return than to travel alone.
On both occasions, she sought guidance from the prophet, Brigham Young, who encouraged her to go. Despite the great difficulty and her personal reluctance, she successfully made the journey each time.
Initially, Louisa found little joy in traveling. However, she soon began to welcome the green prairie grass, colorful wildflowers, and patches of ground along the riverbanks. “The gloom on my mind wore gradually away,” she recorded, “and there was not a more mirthful woman in the whole company.”
Louisa’s story has deeply inspired me. I admire her willingness to set aside her personal preferences, her ability to trust God, and how exercising her faith helped her to see the situation differently.
She has reminded me that we have a loving Father in Heaven, who cares for us wherever we are, and that we can trust Him more than anyone or anything else.


The Source of Truth

God trusts us to make many important decisions, and in all matters He asks us to trust Him. This is especially difficult when our judgment or public opinion differs from His will for His children.
Some suggest that we should redraw the lines between what is right and what is wrong because they say that truth is relative, reality is self-defined, or God is so generous that He does not actually care about what we do.
As we seek to understand and accept God’s will, it is helpful to remember that the boundaries between right and wrong are not for us to define. God has established these boundaries Himself, based on eternal truths for our benefit and blessing.
The desire to change God’s eternal truth has a long history. It started before the world began, when Satan rebelled against God’s plan, seeking selfishly to destroy human agency. Following this pattern, people like Sherem, Nehor, and Korihor have argued that faith is foolish, revelation is irrelevant, and whatever we want to do is right. Sadly, so very often these deviations from God’s truth have led to great sorrow.
While some things may depend on context, not everything does. President Russell M. Nelson has consistently taught that God’s saving truths are absolute, independent, and defined by God Himself.



Our Choice

Whom we choose to trust is one of life’s important decisions. King Benjamin instructed his people, “Believe in God; believe that he is … ; believe that he has all wisdom … ; believe that man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend.”
Fortunately, we have the scriptures and guidance from living prophets to help us understand God’s truth. If clarification beyond what we have is needed, God provides it through His prophets. And He will respond to our sincere prayers through the Holy Ghost as we seek to understand truths we do not yet fully appreciate.
Elder Neil L. Andersen once taught that we should not be surprised “if at times [our] personal views are not initially in harmony with the teachings of the Lord’s prophet. These are moments of learning,” he said, “of humility, when we go to our knees in prayer. We walk forward in faith, trusting in God, knowing that with time we will receive more spiritual clarity from our Heavenly Father.”
At all times, it is helpful to remember Alma’s teaching that God gives His word according to the attention and effort we devote to it. If we heed God’s word, we will receive more; if we ignore His counsel, we will receive less and less until we have none. This loss of knowledge does not mean that the truth was wrong; rather, it shows that we have lost the capacity to understand it.



Look to the Savior

In Capernaum, the Savior taught about His identity and mission. Many found His words difficult to hear, leading them to turn their backs and “[walk] no more with him.”
Why did they walk away?
Because they did not like what He said. So, trusting their own judgment, they walked away, denying themselves blessings that would have come had they stayed.
It is easy for our pride to come between us and eternal truth. When we don’t understand, we can pause, let our feelings settle, and then choose how to respond. The Savior urged us to “look unto [Him] in every thought; doubt not, fear not.” When we focus on the Savior, our faith can start to overcome our concerns.
As President Dieter F. Uchtdorf encouraged us to do: “Please, first doubt your doubts before you doubt your faith. We must never allow doubt to hold us prisoner and keep us from the divine love, peace, and gifts that come through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.”



Blessings Come to Those Who Stay

As the disciples walked away from the Savior that day, He then asked the Twelve, “Will ye also go away?”
Peter answered:
“Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life.
“And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God.”
Now, the Apostles lived in the same world, and they faced the same social pressures as the disciples who walked away. However, in this moment, they chose their faith and trusted God, thus preserving blessings God gives to those who stay.
Perhaps you, like me, sometimes find yourself on both sides of this decision. When we find it difficult to understand or embrace God’s will, it is comforting to remember that He loves us as we are, wherever we are. And He has something better for us. If we reach out to Him, He will assist us.
While reaching out to Him can be difficult, just as the father who sought healing for his son was told by the Savior, “All things are possible to him that believeth.” In our moments of struggle, we too can cry out, “Help thou [my] unbelief.”



Submitting Our Will to His

Elder Neal A. Maxwell once taught that “the submission of one’s will is really the only uniquely personal thing we have to place on God’s altar.” No wonder King Benjamin was so eager that his people become “as a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full of love, willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon him, even as a child doth submit to his father.”
As always, the Savior set the perfect example for us. With a heavy heart, and knowing the painful work He had to do, He submitted to His Father’s will, fulfilling His messianic mission and opening the promise of eternity to you and me.
The choice to submit our will to God’s is an act of faith that lies at the heart of our discipleship. In making that choice, we discover that our agency is not diminished; rather, it is magnified and rewarded by the presence of the Holy Ghost, who brings purpose, joy, peace, and hope we can find nowhere else.
Several months ago, a stake president and I visited a sister in his stake and her young adult son. After years away from the Church, wandering difficult and unfriendly paths, she had returned. During our visit, we asked her why she had come back.
“I had made a mess of my life,” she said, “and I knew where I needed to be.”
I then asked her what she had learned in her journey.
With some emotion, she shared that she had learned that she needed to attend church long enough to break the habit of not coming and that she needed to stay until it was where she wanted to be. Her return was not easy, but as she exercised faith in the Father’s plan, she felt the Spirit return.
And then she added, “I have learned for myself that God is good and that His ways are better than mine.”
I bear witness of God, our Eternal Father, who loves us; of His Son, Jesus Christ, who saved us. They know our hurts and challenges. They will never forsake us and know perfectly how to succor us. We can be of good cheer as we trust Them more than anyone or anything else. In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Louisa Barnes Pratt, in Saints: The Story of the Church of Jesus Christ in the Latter Days, vol. 2, No Unhallowed Hand, 1846–1893 (2020), 103; see also Saints, vol. 1, The Standard of Truth, 1815–1846 (2018), 494–95.


After all, He is our Father. He loves us. And, as Elder Patrick Kearon taught, “[He] is in relentless pursuit of [us]. He ‘wants all of His children to choose to return to Him’ [General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1.1, Gospel Library], and He employs every possible measure to bring [us] back” (“God’s Intent Is to Bring You Home,” Liahona, May 2024, 87).


See 2 Nephi 4:34.


See Moses 4:3.


See Jacob 7:7; Alma 1:4; 30:13–18, 23–28.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 117–19; “The Love and Laws of God” (Brigham Young University devotional, Sept. 17, 2019), speeches.byu.edu; “Pure Truth, Pure Doctrine, and Pure Revelation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 6–7.


Mosiah 4:9.


Neil L. Andersen, “The Prophet of God,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 26.


See Alma 12:9–11.


See Alma 32:38–39.


John 6:66; see also verse 60.


Doctrine and Covenants 6:36.


Dieter F. Uchtdorf, “Come, Join with Us,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2013, 23.


John 6:67–69.


Mark 9:23.


Mark 9:24.


Neal A. Maxwell, “Swallowed Up in the Will of the Father,” Ensign, Nov. 1995, 24.


Mosiah 3:19.


See Doctrine and Covenants 19:18–19.


See Acts 5:32; Galatians 3:2; Jarom 1:4; Alma 32:28; Mormon 9:25; Ether 4:11.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"God Loves All His Children","year":"2024","month":"10"}


God Loves All His Children

By Elder Gregorio E. Casillas
Of the Seventy

Jesus Christ is always calling upon us, and He uses us, His ordinary servants, to help bring His children to Him.


What does our Heavenly Father desire from you? Do you understand that when you were in your premortal existence, Heavenly Father was preparing you for your life on earth? Speaking to youth, President Russell M. Nelson taught, “Our Heavenly Father has reserved many of His most noble spirits—perhaps … His finest team﻿—for this final phase.” Because we have been reserved for these latter days, it is crucial for us to learn to be disciples of Jesus Christ.
The Lord Jesus Christ is the Good Shepherd, and He knows His flock, and the flock knows its Shepherd because “he calleth his own sheep by name.” He is always calling upon us, and He uses us, His ordinary servants, to help bring His children to Him.
A while ago, a stake president and I were visiting members of the Church in a local neighborhood. After we finished our scheduled visits, the stake president asked me if we could go see one more family. He felt impressed that we should talk with them. 
We knocked on the door, and a sister opened it. She looked at me, but she didn’t know who I was, so she didn’t express much. I pointed my hand toward the stake president, who greeted her by name. As soon as she heard and saw him, she rejoiced. Standing there at the door, they both hugged each other and cried together. This set the tone for our visit. We didn’t know that the sister had received chemotherapy the day before. She felt too weak to care for her adult son. So I helped the stake president dress her son, and we put him in his wheelchair. We fed him the food that another sweet sister from the ward had brought earlier, and we helped with other tasks. Before we left their home, we were able to bless them. 
All that was going through my mind during this visit was a confirmation that Jesus Christ loves them deeply. He understands them and personally knows the pain of their unique situation. Almost the entire visit happened in silence. On this occasion we did not give a big sermon or share our favorite scripture, but the Lord blessed us with His Spirit abundantly.
One of the greatest reasons your Heavenly Father sent you here at this time is so that you can realize your full potential. Preach My Gospel teaches us that as disciples of Christ, we should avoid comparing ourselves to one another. Your spiritual abilities are unique, personal, and innate, and your Heavenly Father wants to help you develop them. There will always be someone you can help feel the love of your Heavenly Father. Your potential is divine. While it’s certainly important to prepare yourself to succeed in this very competitive world, one of your crucial missions throughout your life is to become a disciple of Jesus Christ and to follow the impressions of the Spirit. As you do this, God will bless your life; He will bless your current or future family; and He will bless the lives of His children who you encounter.
We live in a time of great opportunity. Although we face many difficulties, I know they are there in part to allow us to help others feel the love of our Heavenly Father. President Nelson taught, “In coming days, we will see the greatest manifestations of the Savior’s power that the world has ever seen.” We have the privilege to watch over people who need a helping hand, an embrace, a feeling of comfort, or for us simply to be with them in silence. If we can help lighten their burdens, even if only for a moment, then we will be able to see the great manifestations of the Savior’s power in their lives.
As disciples of Jesus Christ, Latter-day Saints can make a positive difference in the world. We can provide a sense of joy that is reflected in our countenance—a joy that we share with words of love and acts of kindness. Let us be good neighbors, good employers, good workers. Let us strive to be good Christians at all times.
The Lord has restored His gospel with the necessary ordinances so that Heavenly Father’s children can have all the promises that bind us to Him. By helping our sisters and brothers in their daily challenges, let us also remember to help them make and keep these sacred promises with their Heavenly Father so that He in turn can promise them the richest blessings for this life and for eternity. These promises are only made possible through the Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ and His priesthood keys.
In other words, we can help others stay on the covenant path. Some of us deviate from the path from time to time, and so we must remember that for our Heavenly Father we always have the possibility of returning. Even if our course is not the most perfect, the Savior always reminds us, “As oft as [we repent] and [seek] forgiveness, with real intent, [we will be] forgiven.”
One of the crafts of the adversary today is to make us think and believe that there is no way for us to change or that we no longer have hope. This destructive thinking causes many of us to stop trying. And it is at this moment when our love, our words of encouragement and support, our time, and our help can give someone hope enough to try once more.
Maybe you are thinking, “OK, but who ministers to me?” By going and blessing the lives of our brothers and sisters, we will collect testimonies that will fill our lives with faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. These testimonies will revitalize us to try once more ourselves. The Holy Spirit will revive us and help us with renewed testimonies to continue with our own difficulties and personal trials. Whenever we seek to bless the lives of others, the Lord takes mercy upon us even more; He strengthens us and helps us in our lives. 
Please remember that the Lord Jesus Christ is your Savior and understands you personally. He knows what it is to have to fulfill a calling and leave things behind to help the children of God. He has the power to bless you in everything if you believe in Him and do not doubt.
My dear brothers and sisters, on that day when a priesthood leader felt impressed for us to visit a mother and a son that we did not have on our agenda, I proclaim that God knew they needed us. And at the end, I was the one who was ministered to. On that day, I received one of the greatest lessons of the Savior’s love for us.
I testify that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, that He lives, that He lived and died for you and me, and that He was resurrected for you and me so that we can aspire to celestial reunions full of joy with those who are already on the other side of the veil. I know that He understands you and me perfectly. He understands each of our difficult moments, and He has the power to help us in those moments when we feel most vulnerable. I know that the Lord Jesus Christ and our Heavenly Father appeared to Joseph Smith to restore the gospel in these days. I know that our dear prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, is a prophet of the Lord, and I testify of these things in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Russell M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel” (worldwide youth devotional, June 3, 2018), Gospel Library.


See John 10:2–4.


“Avoid comparing yourself to other missionaries and measuring the outward results of your efforts with theirs” (Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ [2023], 13).


Russell M. Nelson, “Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 95.


Moroni 6:8.


See Alma 56:47; 57:26.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Following Christ","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Following Christ

By President Dallin H. Oaks
First Counselor in the First Presidency

As followers of Christ, we teach and testify of Jesus Christ, our Perfect Role Model. So let us follow Him by forgoing contention.


This year millions have been inspired by the gospel study plan known by the Savior’s invitation “Come, follow me.” Following Christ is not a casual or occasional practice. It is a continuous commitment and way of life that should guide us at all times and in all places. His teachings and His example define the path for every disciple of Jesus Christ. And all are invited to this path, for He invites all to come unto Him, “black and white, bond and free, male and female; … and all are alike unto God.”


I.

The first step in following Christ is to obey what He defined as “the great commandment in the law”:
“Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.
“This is the first and great commandment.
“And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
“On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.”

The commandments of God provide the guiding and steadying force in our lives. Our experiences in mortality are like the little boy and his father flying a kite on a windy day. As the kite rose higher, the winds caused it to tug on the connecting string in the little boy’s hand. Inexperienced with the force of mortal winds, he proposed to cut the string so the kite could rise higher. His wise father counseled no, explaining that the string is what holds the kite in place against mortal winds. If we lose our hold on the string, the kite will not rise higher. It will be carried about by these winds and inevitably crash to the earth.
That essential string represents the covenants that connect us to God, our Heavenly Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ. As we honor those covenants by keeping Their commandments and following Their plan of redemption, Their promised blessings enable us to soar to celestial heights.
The Book of Mormon frequently declares that Christ is “the light of the world.” During His appearance to the Nephites, the risen Lord explained that teaching by telling them: “I have set an example for you.” “I am the light which ye shall hold up—that which ye have seen me do.” He is our role model. We learn what He has said and done by studying the scriptures and following prophetic teachings, as President Russell M. Nelson has urged us to do. In the ordinance of the sacrament, we covenant each Sabbath day that we will “always remember him and keep his commandments.”



II.

In the Book of Mormon, the Lord gave us the fundamentals in what He called “the doctrine of Christ.” These are faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, enduring to the end, and becoming as a little child, which means to trust the Lord and submit to all He requires of us.
The Lord’s commandments are of two types: permanent, like the doctrine of Christ, and temporary. Temporary commandments are those necessary for the needs of the Lord’s Church or the faithful in temporary circumstances, but to be set aside when the need has passed. An example of temporary commandments are the Lord’s directions to the early leadership of the Church to move the Saints from New York to Ohio, to Missouri, and to Illinois and finally to lead the pioneer exodus to the Intermountain West. Though only temporary, when still in force these commandments were given to be obeyed.
Some permanent commandments have taken considerable time to be generally observed. For example, President Lorenzo Snow’s famous sermon on the law of tithing emphasized a commandment given earlier but not yet generally observed by Church members. It needed reemphasis in the circumstances then faced by the Church and its members. Recent examples of reemphases have also been needed because of current circumstances faced by Latter-day Saints or the Church. These include the proclamation on the family, issued by President Gordon B. Hinckley a generation ago, and President Russell M. Nelson’s recent call for the Church to be known by its revealed name, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.



III.

Another of our Savior’s teachings seems to require reemphasis in the circumstances of our day.
This is a time of many harsh and hurtful words in public communications and sometimes even in our families. Sharp differences on issues of public policy often result in actions of hostility—even hatred—in public and personal relationships. This atmosphere of enmity sometimes even paralyzes capacities for lawmaking on matters of importance where most citizens see an urgent need for some action in the public interest.
What should followers of Christ teach and do in this time of toxic communications? What were His teachings and examples?

It is significant that among the first principles Jesus taught when He appeared to the Nephites was to avoid contention. While He taught this in the context of disputes over religious doctrine, the reasons He gave clearly apply to communications and relationships in politics, public policy, and family relationships. Jesus taught:
“He that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another.
“Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should be done away.”
In His remaining ministry among the Nephites, Jesus taught other commandments closely related to His prohibition of contention. We know from the Bible that He had previously taught each of these in His great Sermon on the Mount, usually in precisely the same language He later used with the Nephites. I will quote the familiar Bible language:

“Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you.”
This is one of Christ’s best-known commandments—most revolutionary and most difficult to follow. Yet it is a most fundamental part of His invitation for all to follow Him. As President David O. McKay taught, “There is no better way to manifest love for God than to show an unselfish love for one’s fellowmen.”

Here is another fundamental teaching by Him who is our role model: “Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.”
Peacemakers! How it would change personal relationships if followers of Christ would forgo harsh and hurtful words in all their communications.
In general conference last year, President Russell M. Nelson gave us these challenges:
“One of the easiest ways to identify a true follower of Jesus Christ is how compassionately that person treats other people. …
“… True disciples of Jesus Christ are peacemakers.
“… One of the best ways we can honor the Savior is to become a peacemaker.”
Concluding his teachings: “Contention is a choice. Peacemaking is a choice. You have your agency to choose contention or reconciliation. I urge you to choose to be a peacemaker, now and always.”
Potential adversaries should begin their discussions by identifying common ground on which all agree.
To follow our Perfect Role Model and His prophet, we need to practice what is popularly known as the Golden Rule: “All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets.” We need to love and do good to all. We need to avoid contention and be peacemakers in all our communications. This does not mean to compromise our principles and priorities but to cease harshly attacking others for theirs. That is what our Perfect Role Model did in His ministry. That is the example He set for us as He invited us to follow Him.
In this conference four years ago, President Nelson gave us a prophetic challenge for our own day:
“Are you willing to let God prevail in your life? Are you willing to let God be the most important influence in your life? Will you allow His words, His commandments, and His covenants to influence what you do each day? Will you allow His voice to take priority over any other?”

As followers of Christ, we teach and testify of Jesus Christ, our Perfect Role Model. So let us follow Him by forgoing contention. As we pursue our preferred policies in public actions, let us qualify for His blessings by using the language and methods of peacemakers. In our families and other personal relationships, let us avoid what is harsh and hateful. Let us seek to be holy, like our Savior, in whose holy name I testify and invoke His blessing to help us be Saints. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Luke 18:22.


2 Nephi 26:33.


Matthew 22:36–40.


Alma 38:9; see also Mosiah 16:9; 3 Nephi 9:18.


3 Nephi 18:16.


3 Nephi 18:24; see also 3 Nephi 27:21.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Drawing the Power of Jesus Christ into Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2017, 39–40.


Doctrine and Covenants 20:77.


See 3 Nephi 11:32–33, 38; see also 2 Nephi 31:13–21; 3 Nephi 27:13–22.


See Mosiah 3:19.


See Saints: The Story of the Church of Jesus Christ in the Latter Days, vol. 3, Boldly, Nobly, and Independent, 1893–1955 (2022), 73–77.


See “The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Correct Name of the Church,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 87–89.


3 Nephi 11:29–30.


Matthew 5:44; see also 3 Nephi 12:44.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: David O. McKay (2003), 181.


Matthew 5:9; see also 3 Nephi 12:9.


Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 98, 99, 100.


Matthew 7:12.


Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 94.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Burying Our Weapons of Rebellion","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Burying Our Weapons of Rebellion

By Elder D. Todd Christofferson
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

May we bury—very, very deep—any element of rebellion against God in our lives and replace it with a willing heart and a willing mind.


The Book of Mormon records that approximately 90 years before the birth of Christ, the sons of King Mosiah began what would be a 14-year mission to the Lamanites. Unsuccessful efforts had been made over many generations to bring the Lamanite people to a belief in the doctrine of Christ. This time, however, through the miraculous interventions of the Holy Spirit, thousands of the Lamanites were converted and became disciples of Jesus Christ.
We read, “And as sure as the Lord liveth, so sure as many as believed, or as many as were brought to the knowledge of the truth, through the preaching of Ammon and his brethren, according to the spirit of revelation and of prophecy, and the power of God working miracles in them—yea, I say unto you, as the Lord liveth, as many of the Lamanites as believed in their preaching, and were converted unto the Lord, never did fall away.”
The key to the enduring conversion of this people is stated in the next verse: “For they became a righteous people; they did lay down the weapons of their rebellion, that they did not fight against God any more, neither against any of their brethren.”
This reference to “weapons of rebellion” was both literal and figurative. It meant their swords and other weapons of war but also their disobedience to God and His commandments.
The king of these converted Lamanites expressed it this way: “And now behold, my brethren, … it has been all that we could do … to repent of all our sins and the many murders which we have committed, and to get God to take them away from our hearts, for it was all we could do to repent sufficiently before God that he would take away our stain.”
Note the king’s words—not only had their sincere repentance led to forgiveness of their sins, but God also took away the stain of those sins and even the desire to sin from their hearts. As you know, rather than risk any possible return to their prior state of rebellion against God, they buried their swords. And as they buried their physical weapons, with changed hearts, they also buried their disposition to sin.
We might ask ourselves what we could do to follow this pattern, to “lay down the weapons of [our] rebellion,” whatever they may be, and become so “converted [to] the Lord” that the stain of sin and the desire for sin are taken from our hearts and we never will fall away.
Rebellion can be active or passive. The classic example of willful rebellion is Lucifer, who, in the premortal world, opposed the Father’s plan of redemption and rallied others to oppose it as well, “and, at that day, many followed after him.” It is not hard to discern the impact of his continuing rebellion in our own time.
The Book of Mormon’s unholy trio of anti-Christs—Sherem, Nehor, and Korihor—provide a classic study of active rebellion against God. The overarching thesis of Nehor and Korihor was that there is no sin; therefore, there is no need for repentance, and there is no Savior. “Every man prosper[s] according to his genius, and … every man conquer[s] according to his strength; and whatsoever a man [does is] no crime.” The anti-Christ rejects religious authority, characterizing ordinances and covenants as performances “laid down by ancient priests, to usurp power and authority.”

A latter-day example of willful rebellion with a happier ending is the story of William W. Phelps. Phelps joined the Church in 1831 and was appointed Church printer. He edited several early Church publications, wrote numerous hymns, and served as a scribe to Joseph Smith. Unfortunately, he turned against the Church and the Prophet, even to the point of giving false testimony against Joseph Smith in a Missouri court, which contributed to the Prophet’s imprisonment there.
Later, Phelps wrote to Joseph asking for forgiveness. “I know my situation, you know it, and God knows it, and I want to be saved if my friends will help me.”
In his reply the Prophet stated: “It is true that we have suffered much in consequence of your behavior. … However, the cup has been drunk, the will of our Heavenly Father has been done, and we are yet alive. … Come on, dear brother, since the war is past, for friends at first are friends again at last.”
With sincere repentance, William Phelps buried his “weapons of rebellion” and was received once more in full fellowship, never again to fall away.
Perhaps the more insidious form of rebellion against God, however, is the passive version—ignoring His will in our lives. Many who would never consider active rebellion may still oppose the will and word of God by pursuing their own path without regard to divine direction. I am reminded of the song made famous years ago by singer Frank Sinatra with the climactic line “I did it my way.” Certainly in life there is plenty of room for personal preference and individual choice, but when it comes to matters of salvation and eternal life, our theme song ought to be “I did it God’s way,” because truly there is no other way.
Take, for instance, the Savior’s example regarding baptism. He submitted to baptism as a demonstration of loyalty to the Father and as an example to us:
“He showeth unto the children of men that, according to the flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his commandments. …
“And he said unto the children of men: Follow thou me. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus save we shall be willing to keep the commandments of the Father?”
There is no “my way” if we are to follow Christ’s example. Trying to find a different course to heaven is like the futility of working on the Tower of Babel rather than looking to Christ and His salvation.
The swords and other weapons that the Lamanite converts buried were weapons of rebellion because of how they had used them. Those same kinds of weapons in the hands of their sons, being used in defense of family and freedom, were not weapons of rebellion against God at all. The same was true of such weapons in the hands of the Nephites: “They were not fighting for monarchy nor power but … were fighting for their homes and their liberties, their wives and their children, and their all, yea, for their rites of worship and their church.”
In this same way, there are things in our lives that may be neutral or even inherently good but that used in the wrong way become “weapons of rebellion.” Our speech, for example, can edify or demean. As James said:
“But the tongue [it seems] can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison.
“Therewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God.
“Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be.”
There is much in public and personal discourse today that is malicious and mean-spirited. There is much conversation that is vulgar and profane, even among youth. This sort of speech is a “weapon of rebellion” against God, “full of deadly poison.”
Consider another example of something that is essentially good but that could be turned against divine directives—a person’s career. One can find real satisfaction in a profession, vocation, or service, and all of us are benefited by what devoted and talented people in many fields of endeavor have accomplished and created.
Still, it is possible that devotion to career can become the paramount focus of one’s life. Then all else becomes secondary, including any claim the Savior may make on one’s time and talent. For men, and for women as well, forgoing legitimate opportunities for marriage, failing to cleave to and lift one’s spouse, failing to nurture one’s children, or even intentionally avoiding the blessing and responsibility of child-rearing solely for the sake of career advancement can convert laudable achievement into a form of rebellion.
Another example concerns our physical being. Paul reminds us that we are to glorify God in both body and spirit and that this body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, “which ye have of God, and ye are not your own.” Thus, we have a legitimate interest in spending time caring for our bodies as best we can. Few of us will reach the peak of performance we have seen recently in the achievements of Olympic and Paralympic athletes, and some of us are experiencing the effects of age, or what President M. Russell Ballard called “the rivets coming loose.”
Nevertheless, I believe it pleases our Creator when we do our best to care for His wonderful gift of a physical body. It would be a mark of rebellion to deface or defile one’s body, or abuse it, or fail to do what one can to pursue a healthy lifestyle. At the same time, vanity and becoming consumed with one’s physique, appearance, or dress can be a form of rebellion at the other extreme, leading one to worship God’s gift instead of God.
In the end, burying our weapons of rebellion against God simply means yielding to the enticing of the Holy Spirit, putting off the natural man, and becoming “a saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord.” It means putting the first commandment first in our lives. It means letting God prevail. If our love of God and our determination to serve Him with all our might, mind, and strength become the touchstone by which we judge all things and make all our decisions, we will have buried our weapons of rebellion. By the grace of Christ, God will forgive our sins and rebellions of the past and will take away the stain of those sins and rebellions from our hearts. In time, He will even take away any desire for evil, as He did with those Lamanite converts of the past. Thereafter, we too “never [will] fall away.”
Burying our weapons of rebellion leads to a unique joy. With all who have ever become converted to the Lord, we are “brought to sing [the song of] redeeming love.” Our Heavenly Father and His Son, our Redeemer, have confirmed Their unending commitment to our ultimate happiness through the most profound love and sacrifice. We experience Their love daily. Surely we can reciprocate with our own love and loyalty. May we bury—very, very deep—any element of rebellion against God in our lives and replace it with a willing heart and a willing mind. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See, for example, Jacob 7:24; Enos 1:14, 20.


Alma 23:6.


Alma 23:7.


Alma 24:11; emphasis added.


Abraham 3:28; see also Revelation 12:7–9.


Alma 30:17.


Alma 30:23; see also verses 27–28.


Saints: The Story of the Church of Jesus Christ in the Latter Days, vol. 1, The Standard of Truth, 1815–1846 (2018), 418; see also “Letter from William W. Phelps, with Appended Letter from Orson Hyde and John E. Page, 29 June 1840” and Joseph Smith, “Letter to William W. Phelps, 22 July 1840,” josephsmithpapers.org.


2 Nephi 31:7, 10.


See Alma 53:17–18.


Alma 43:45; see also verse 47; Alma 48:14–16.


James 3:8–10.


James 3:8. “Make sure your language reflects love of God and others—whether you’re communicating in person or virtually. Say things that uplift—nothing that might be divisive, hurtful, or offensive, even as a joke. Your words can be powerful. Let them be powerful for good” (For the Strength of Youth: A Guide for Making Choices [2022], 12).


See 1 Corinthians 6:20.


1 Corinthians 6:19.


Mosiah 3:19.


Alma 23:6.


Alma 26:13.


See Doctrine and Covenants 64:34.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Bonded to Jesus Christ: Becoming the Salt of the Earth","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Bonded to Jesus Christ: Becoming the Salt of the Earth

By Elder José A. Teixeira
Of the Presidency of the Seventy

As we remain bonded to the Lord, our lives will naturally reflect His light, and we will become the salt of the earth.


The Savior taught that when we are “called unto [His] everlasting gospel, and covenant with an everlasting covenant, [we] are accounted as the salt of the earth.” Salt is made of two elements bonded together. We can’t be salt on our own; if we are to be salt of the earth, we must be bonded to the Lord, and that is what I see as I mingle with members of the Church around the world—I see faithful members of the Church bonded to the Lord, committed in their efforts to serve others and be the salt of the earth.
Your unwavering dedication is a shining example. Your service is appreciated and cherished.
Our youth have shown remarkable courage and devotion. They have enthusiastically embraced the work of family history, and their frequent visits to the house of the Lord are a testament to their dedication. Their willingness to devote time and energy to serve missions across the globe reflects a deep and abiding faith. They are not merely participating but leading the way in becoming disciples bonded to Jesus Christ. Their service radiates light and hope, touching countless lives. To you, the youth of the Church, we express our heartfelt thanks for your inspiring service. You are not just the Church’s future but its present. And you are indeed the salt of the earth!
I love the Lord Jesus Christ and feel blessed by the opportunity to serve alongside you in the Lord’s Church. Our unity and strength, grounded in our shared faith, reassure us that we are never alone in this journey. Together, we can continue to build the kingdom of God, rooted in service, love, and unwavering faith.
When Jesus Christ taught by the Sea of Galilee, He often used everyday elements familiar to His audience to convey profound spiritual truths. One such element was salt. Jesus declared, “[You] are the salt of the earth,” a statement rich in meaning and significance, especially for the people of His time, who understood the multifaceted value of salt.
The ancient craft of salt harvesting in the Algarve, the southern region of my home country of Portugal, dates back thousands of years to the era of the Roman Empire. Remarkably, the methods used by the salt workers, known as marnotos, have changed little since then. These dedicated artisans employ traditional techniques, performing their work entirely by hand, maintaining a legacy that has endured through the centuries.
This ancient method harvests what is called “flower of salt.” To fully appreciate the intricate process of harvesting the flower of salt, it is essential to understand the environment in which it is produced. The Algarve’s coastal salt marshes provide the ideal conditions for salt production. Seawater is channeled into shallow ponds, known as salt pans, where it is left to evaporate under the intense sun. As the water evaporates, the flower of salt forms delicate crystals on the surface of the salt pans. These crystals are incredibly pure and have a unique, crisp texture. The marnotos carefully skim the crystals from the water’s surface using specialized tools, a process that requires great skill and precision. In Portugal, this fine-quality salt is referred to as “salt cream” because it can be gently skimmed away like cream rising to the top of milk. This delicate salt is cherished for its purity and exceptional flavor, making it a prized ingredient in culinary arts.
Just like the marnotos put forth great effort to ensure they harvest the highest quality of salt, so should we, as the Lord’s covenant people, always do our very best so that our love and example are, as much as possible, a pure reflection of our Savior, Jesus Christ.
In the ancient world, salt was more than just a seasoning—it was a vital preservative and a symbol of purity and covenant. People knew that salt was essential for preserving food and enhancing flavor. They also understood the grave implications of salt losing its saltiness, or savor, by becoming contaminated or diluted.
Like salt can lose its essence, we can also lose our spiritual vitality if our faith in Jesus Christ becomes casual. We may look the same on the outside, but without a strong inner faith, we lose our ability to make a difference in the world and bring out the best in those around us.
So how can we channel our energy and efforts to make a difference and be the change the world needs today? How can we preserve discipleship and continue to be a positive influence?
The words of our dear prophet still echo in my mind: “God wants us to work together and help each other. That is why He sends us to earth in families and organizes us into wards and stakes. That is why He asks us to serve and minister to each other. That is why He asks us to live in the world but not be of the world.”
When our lives are filled with purpose and service, we avoid spiritual apathy; on the other hand, when our lives are deprived of divine purpose, meaningful service to others, and sacred opportunities for pondering and reflection, we gradually become suffocated by our own activity and self-interest, risking losing our savor. The antidote to this is to continue to be involved in service—being anxiously engaged in good works and the betterment of ourselves and the society we live in.
My dear brothers and sisters, what a blessing we all have today to belong to the Church of Jesus Christ and have the opportunity to serve in His Church. Our circumstances may vary, but we all can make a difference.
Remember the marnotos, the salt workers; they use simple tools to harvest the best crystals, the best salt! We too can do simple things that, with consistent efforts in small and meaningful acts, can deepen our discipleship and commitment to Jesus Christ. Here are four simple yet profound ways we can strive to be the salt of the earth:


Keeping the house of the Lord at the center of our devotion. Now that temples are closer than ever before, prioritizing regular worship in the house of the Lord will help us focus on what matters most and keep our lives centered in Christ. In the temple, we find the heart of our faith in Jesus Christ and the soul of our devotion to Him.


Being deliberate in our efforts to strengthen others by living the gospel together. We can strengthen our families through consistent and intentional efforts to bring gospel principles into our lives and to our homes.


Being willing to accept a calling and serving in the Church. Service in our local congregations allows us to support one another and grow together. While serving is not always convenient, it is always rewarding.


And finally, using digital communication tools with purpose. Today, digital communication tools allow us to connect as never before. Like most of you, I use these tools to connect with brothers and sisters in the Church and with my family and friends. As I connect with them, I feel closer to them; we can minister to each other in times of need when we cannot be physically present. These tools are undoubtedly a blessing, yet these very same tools can drag us away from the depth of meaningful interactions and eventually cause us to be pulled into habits that waste our time in less purposeful activities. Striving to be the salt of the earth includes so much more than an endless scrolling of reels on a six-inch (15 cm) screen.


As we keep the house of the Lord central in our lives, intentionally strengthen others by living the gospel, accept callings to serve, and use digital tools with purpose, we can preserve our spiritual vitality. Just as salt in its purest form has the power to enhance and preserve, so too does our faith in Jesus Christ when it is nourished and protected by our dedication to Christlike service and love.
As we remain bonded to the Lord, our lives will naturally reflect His light, and we will become the salt of the earth. In this effort, we not only enrich our lives but also strengthen our families and our communities. May we strive to maintain this bond with the Lord, never lose our savor, and be the small, little crystal of salt that the Lord wants us to be. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Doctrine and Covenants 101:39.


Matthew 5:13.


Russell M. Nelson, “What We Are Learning and Will Never Forget,” Liahona, May 2021, 79.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"His Hand Ready to Help Us","year":"2024","month":"10"}


His Hand Ready to Help Us

By Elder Juan Pablo Villar
Of the Seventy

As we reach out to Jesus Christ in faith, He will always be there.


When I was a child, as a family we went on vacation to a beach on the coast of my native country, Chile. I was excited to spend some days enjoying the summer with my family. I was also thrilled because I thought I could finally join in and do what my two older brothers usually did for fun on the water.
One day my brothers went to play where the waves were breaking, and I felt big and mature enough to follow them. As I moved toward that area, I realized the waves were larger than they appeared from the shore. Suddenly, a wave rapidly approached me, taking me by surprise. I felt like the power of nature had taken over me, and I was dragged into the depths of the sea. I couldn’t see or feel any reference point as I was tossed around. Just as I thought my adventure on the earth might be coming to an end, I felt a hand pulling me toward the surface. Finally, I could see the sun and catch my breath.
My brother Claudio had seen my attempts to act as a grown-up and had come to my rescue. I was not far from the shore. Even though the water was shallow, I was disoriented and had not realized I could have helped myself. Claudio told me that I needed to be careful and, if I wanted, he could teach me. Despite the gallons of water I had swallowed, my pride and desire to be a big boy were stronger, and I said, “Sure.”
Claudio told me I needed to attack the waves. I told myself I would surely lose that battle against what seemed like a huge wall of water.
As a new big wave approached, Claudio quickly said, “Look at me; this is how you do it.” Claudio ran toward the incoming wave and dove into it before it broke. I was so impressed with his dive that I lost sight of the next incoming wave. So again I was sent to the depths of the sea and tossed by the forces of nature. A few seconds later, a hand grasped mine, and I was again pulled toward the surface and air. The flame of my pride was extinguishing.
This time my brother invited me to dive with him. As per his invitation, I followed him, and we dove together. I felt as if I was conquering the most complicated challenge. Certainly, it was not very easy, but I did it, thanks to the help and example shown by my brother. His hand rescued me twice; his example showed me how to deal with my challenge and be victorious that day.
President Russell M. Nelson has invited us to think celestial, and I want to follow his advice and apply it to my summer story.


The Savior’s Power over the Adversary

If we think celestial, we will understand that in our lives we will face challenges that seem greater than our capacity to overcome them. During our mortal time, we are subject to the attacks of the adversary. Like the waves that had power over me that summer day, we can feel powerless and want to give in to a stronger fate. Those “malicious waves” could jostle us from side to side. But do not forget who has power over those waves and, in fact, over all things. That is our Savior, Jesus Christ. He has the power to help us out of every miserable condition or adverse situation. Regardless of whether we feel close to Him, He still can reach us where we are as we are.
As we reach out to Him in faith, He will always be there, and in His time, He will be ready and willing to grasp our hands and pull us up to a safe place.



The Savior and His Ministering Example

If we think celestial, we will recognize Jesus Christ as a flawless example of ministry. There is a pattern for us in the scriptures when He or His disciples reach out to someone in need of help, rescue, or a blessing as they reach out with their hands. As in my story, I knew my brother was there, but being there for me was not enough. Claudio knew I was in trouble, and he went to help lift me from the water.
Occasionally, we think that we only need to be there for someone in need, and many times there is more we can do. Having an eternal perspective can help us receive revelation to offer timely assistance to others in need. We can rely on the guidance and inspiration of the Holy Ghost to discern what kind of help is needed, whether it is temporal support like emotional comfort, food, or aid with daily tasks, or spiritual guidance to help others in their journey to prepare, make, and honor sacred covenants.



The Savior Is Ready to Rescue Us

When Peter, the senior Apostle, “walked on the water, to go to Jesus, … he was afraid; and beginning to sink”; then “he cried, saying, Lord, save me.” Jesus knew the faith Peter had exercised to come unto Him on the water. He was also aware of Peter’s fear. According to the account, Jesus “immediately … stretched forth his hand, and caught him,” saying the following words: “O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?” His words were not to scold Peter but to remind him that He, the Messiah, was with him and the disciples.
If we think celestial, we will receive the confirmation in our hearts that Jesus Christ is indeed our Rescuer, our Advocate with the Father, and our Redeemer. As we exercise faith in Him, He will save us from our fallen state, beyond our challenges, infirmities, and needs in this temporal life, and give us the greatest of all gifts, which is eternal life.



The Savior Does Not Give Up on Us

My brother did not give up on me that day but persisted so I could learn how to do it for myself. He persisted, even if that required rescuing me twice. He persisted, even if I could not get it at first. He persisted so I could overcome that challenge and succeed. If we think celestial, we will realize that our Savior will be there as many times as necessary to provide help if we want to learn, change, overcome, cope, or succeed in whatever will bring true and everlasting happiness to our lives.



The Savior’s Hands

The scriptures immortalize the symbol and significance of the Savior’s hands. In His atoning sacrifice, His hands were pierced by nails to affix Him to the cross. After His Resurrection, He appeared to His disciples in a perfect body, but the prints in His hands remain as a reminder of His infinite sacrifice. His hand will always be there for us, even if we cannot see it or feel it at first, because He was chosen by our Heavenly Father to be our Savior, the Redeemer of all humankind.



Within Our Grasp, by Jay Bryant Ward





The Hand of God, by Yongsung Kim


If I think celestial, I know that we are not left alone in this life. While we must face challenges and trials, our Heavenly Father knows our capabilities and knows we can bear or overcome our difficulties. We must do our part and turn to Him in faith. His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, is our rescuer and will always be there. In His name, the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 118:
“When you make choices, I invite you to take the long view—an eternal view. Put Jesus Christ first because your eternal life is dependent upon your faith in Him and in His Atonement. …
“When you are confronted with a dilemma, think celestial! When tested by temptation, think celestial! When life or loved ones let you down, think celestial! When someone dies prematurely, think celestial. When someone lingers with a devastating illness, think celestial. When the pressures of life crowd in upon you, think celestial! As you recover from an accident or injury, as I am doing now, think celestial!”


See Mark 4:35–41.


While we believe that our Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ have the ability to help us whenever we need it, Their help may not always come in the way we expect. It’s important to trust that They know us better than we know ourselves and will provide the support and assistance that is best for us at the right time: “Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good” (Doctrine and Covenants 122:7).
The trials and challenges we face help us develop the strength and character to resist temptation and overcome the natural man.


See Matthew 14:31; Mark 1:31; 5:41; 9:27; Acts 3:7; 3 Nephi 18:36.


When President Russell M. Nelson invited us to minister in a newer and holier way (see “Ministering,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 100), he also asked us to understand that this new way of ministering is not about us and what we want to offer but what others need. Jesus Christ is giving us the opportunity to love our neighbor (see Luke 10:27) in a higher and holier way.


Matthew 14:29–30.


Matthew 14:31.


To truly understand happiness, we need to understand the role of blessings in our lives. The definition of blessings helps to clarify this concept: a blessing is “to confer divine favor upon someone. Anything contributing to true happiness, well-being, or prosperity is a blessing” (Guide to the Scriptures, “Bless, Blessed, Blessing,” Gospel Library). The world often confuses true happiness with temporary pleasure, which imitates a “happiness” that is short-lived.


See Isaiah 49:16.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Welcome to the Church of Joy","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Welcome to the Church of Joy

By Elder Patrick Kearon
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Because of the redeeming life and mission of our Saviour, Jesus Christ, we can—and should—be the most joyful people on earth!


I was baptised into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on Christmas Eve of 1987, nearly 37 years ago. That was a truly wonderful day in my life and in my eternal journey, and I’m profoundly grateful for the friends who prepared the way and brought me to the waters of that new birth.
Whether your baptism was yesterday or years ago, whether you meet in a large multiward Church building or under a thatched canopy, whether you receive the sacrament in remembrance of the Saviour in Thai or Swahili, I would like to say to you, welcome to the church of joy! Welcome to the church of joy!


The Church of Joy

Because of the loving plan of our Heavenly Father for each of His children, and because of the redeeming life and mission of our Saviour, Jesus Christ, we can—and should—be the most joyful people on earth! Even as the storms of life in an often-troubled world pound upon us, we can cultivate a growing and abiding sense of joy and inner peace because of our hope in Christ and our understanding of our own place in the beautiful plan of happiness.
The Lord’s senior Apostle, President Russell M. Nelson, has spoken of the joy that comes from a life centered on Jesus Christ in nearly every address he has given since becoming the President of the Church. He summed it up so concisely: “Joy comes from and because of Him. … For Latter-day Saints, Jesus Christ is joy!”
We are members of the Church of Jesus Christ. We are members of the church of joy! And nowhere should our joy as a people be more apparent than when we gather together each Sabbath in our sacrament meetings to worship the source of all joy! Here we assemble with our ward and branch families to celebrate the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, our deliverance from sin and death, and the Saviour’s powerful grace! Here we come to experience the joy, refuge, forgiveness, thanksgiving, and belonging found through Jesus Christ!
Is this spirit of collective rejoicing in Christ what you find? Is this what you bring? Maybe you think this doesn’t have much to do with you, or perhaps you are simply used to how things have always been done. But we can all contribute, no matter our age or our calling, to making our sacrament meetings the joy-filled, Christ-focused, welcoming hour they can be, alive with a spirit of joyful reverence.



Joyful Reverence

Joyful reverence? “Is that a thing?” you may ask. Well, yes, it is! We deeply love, honour, and respect our God, and our reverence flows from a soul that rejoices in Christ’s abundant love, mercy, and salvation! This joyful reverence to the Lord should characterise our sacred sacrament meetings.
However, for many, reverence only means this: folding our arms tightly around our chests, bowing our heads, closing our eyes, and holding still—indefinitely! This might be a helpful way to teach energetic young children, but as we grow and learn, let us see that reverence is so much more than this. Is that how we would be if the Saviour were with us? No, for “in [His] presence is fulness of joy”!
Well, for many of us this transformation in sacrament services will take practice.



Attending versus Worshipping

We do not gather on the Sabbath simply to attend sacrament meeting and check it off the list. We come together to worship. There is a significant difference between the two. To attend means to be present at. But to worship is to intentionally praise and adore our God in a way that transforms us!



On the Stand and in the Congregation

If we are gathering in remembrance of the Saviour and the redemption He has made possible, our faces should reflect our joy and gratitude! Elder F. Enzio Busche once told the story of when he was a branch president and a young boy in the congregation looked at him on the stand and asked loudly, “What is the man with that mean face doing up there?” Those who sit on the stand—speakers, leaders, choirs—and those who gather in the congregation communicate to each other this “welcome to the church of joy” through the expressions they wear on their faces!



Hymn Singing

As we sing, are we joining together to praise our God and King no matter the quality of our voices, or are we just mumbling or not singing at all? Scripture records that “the song of the righteous is a prayer unto [God]” in which His soul delights. So let’s sing! And praise Him!



Talks and Testimonies

We center our talks and testimonies on Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ and the fruits of humbly living Their gospel, fruits that are “sweet above all that is sweet.” Then we truly “feast … even until [we] are filled, that [we] hunger not, neither … thirst,” and our burdens become lighter through the joy of the Son.



The Sacrament

The glorious focal point of our services is the blessing and receiving of the sacrament itself, the bread and the water representing the atoning gift of our Lord and the whole purpose of our gathering. This is “a sacred time of spiritual renewal” when we witness anew that we are willing to take upon us the name of Jesus Christ and make again the covenant to always remember the Saviour and keep His commandments.
In some seasons of life, we may approach the sacrament with heavy hearts and overwhelming loads. At other times, we come free and unburdened from cares and troubles. As we listen intently to the blessing of the bread and water and partake of those sacred tokens, we may feel to reflect on the sacrifice of the Saviour, His agonies in Gethsemane, His anguish on the cross, and the sorrows and pains He endured on our behalf. That will be what relieves our souls as we connect our suffering to His. At other times, we will feel to wonder with grateful awe at the “exquisite and sweet” joy of what Jesus’s magnificent gift has made possible in our lives and in our eternities! We will rejoice for what is yet to come—our cherished reunion with our beloved Father and risen Saviour.
We may have been conditioned to suppose that the purpose of the sacrament is to sit in the pew thinking only about all the ways we messed up during the week before. But let’s turn that practice on its head. In the stillness, we can ponder the many ways we have seen the Lord relentlessly pursue us with His wonderful love that week! We can reflect on what it means to “discover the joy of daily repentance.” We can give thanks for the times the Saviour entered into our struggles and our triumphs and the occasions when we felt His grace, forgiveness, and power giving us strength to overcome our hardships and bear our burdens with patience and even good cheer.
Yes, we ponder the sufferings and injustices inflicted upon our Redeemer for our sin, and that does cause sober reflection. But we sometimes get stuck there—in the garden, at the cross, inside the tomb. We fail to move upward to the joy of the tomb bursting open, the defeat of death, and Christ’s victory over all that might prevent us from gaining peace and returning to our heavenly home. Whether we shed tears of sorrow or tears of gratitude during the sacrament, let it be in awesome wonder at the good news of the Father’s gift of His Son!



Parents with Children Who Are Young or Have Special Needs

Now, for parents of children who are young or have special needs, there is often no such thing as a time of stillness and quiet reflection during the sacrament. But in small moments throughout the week, you can teach by example the love, gratitude, and joy you feel for and from the Saviour as you constantly care for His little lambs. No effort in this pursuit is wasted. God is so aware of you.



Family, Ward, and Branch Councils

Likewise at home, we can begin to enhance our hopes and expectations for our time at church. In family councils, we can discuss how each individual can contribute in meaningful ways to welcoming all to the church of joy! We can plan and expect to have a joyful experience at church.
Ward and branch councils can envision and create a culture of joyful reverence for our sacrament hour, identifying practical steps and visual cues to help.



Joy

Joy looks different for different people. For some, it may be exuberant greetings at the door. For others, it might be quietly helping people feel comfortable by smiling and sitting next to them with a kind and open heart. For those who feel left out or on the margins, the warmth of this welcome will be crucial. Ultimately, we can ask ourselves how the Saviour would want our sacrament hour to be. How would He want each one of His children to be welcomed, cared for, nourished, and loved? How would He want us to feel when we come to be renewed through remembering and worshipping Him?



Conclusion

At the start of my journey of faith, joy in Jesus Christ was my first great discovery, and it changed my world. If you have yet to discover this joy, embark on its quest. This is an invitation to receive the Saviour’s gift of peace, light, and joy—to revel in it, to wonder at it, and to rejoice in it every Sabbath.
Ammon in the Book of Mormon expresses the feelings of my heart when he says:
“Now have we not reason to rejoice? Yea, I say unto you, there never were [a people] that had so great reason to rejoice as we, since the world began; yea, and my joy is carried away, even unto boasting in my God; for he has all power, all wisdom, and all understanding; he comprehendeth all things, and he is a merciful Being, even unto salvation, to those who will repent and believe on his name.
“Now if this is boasting, even so will I boast; for this is my life and my light, … my joy, and my great thanksgiving.”
Welcome to the church of joy! In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


President Russell M. Nelson taught: “Joy is powerful, and focusing on joy brings God’s power into our lives. As in all things, Jesus Christ is our ultimate exemplar, ‘who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross’ [Hebrews 12:2]. Think of that! In order for Him to endure the most excruciating experience ever endured on earth, our Savior focused on joy! And what was the joy that was set before Him? Surely it included the joy of cleansing, healing, and strengthening us; the joy of paying for the sins of all who would repent; the joy of making it possible for you and me to return home—clean and worthy—to live with our Heavenly Parents and families. If we focus on the joy that will come to us, or to those we love, what can we endure that presently seems overwhelming, painful, scary, unfair, or simply impossible?” (“Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 82–83).


Psalm 16:11.


F. Enzio Busche, “Lessons from the Lamb of God,” Religious Educator, vol. 9, no. 2 (2008), 3.


Doctrine and Covenants 25:12.


See Psalm 100:1.


Alma 32:42.


See Alma 33:23.


General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 29.2.1.1, Gospel Library.


See Russell M. Nelson, comment made at the mission leadership seminar, June 2019; quoted in Dale G. Renlund, “Unwavering Commitment to Jesus Christ,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2019, 25.


President Gordon B. Hinckley taught: “When you, as a priest, kneel at the sacrament table and offer up the prayer, which came by revelation, you place the entire congregation under covenant with the Lord. Is this a small thing? It is a most important and remarkable thing” (“The Aaronic Priesthood—a Gift from God,” Ensign, May 1988, 46).
“Those who prepare, bless, or pass the sacrament are administering this ordinance to others on behalf of the Lord. Each one who holds the priesthood should approach this assignment with a solemn, reverent attitude. He should be well groomed, clean, and dressed modestly. Personal appearance should reflect the sacredness of the ordinance” (“Priesthood Ordinances and Blessings,” Family Guidebook [2006], 22).


Alma 36:21.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 98.


See Mosiah 24:13–15.


See John 3:16–17.


Alma 26:35–37.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"“Ye Are My Friends”","year":"2024","month":"10"}


“Ye Are My Friends”

By Elder David L. Buckner
Of the Seventy

The Savior’s declaration “ye are my friends” is a clarion call to build higher and holier relationships among all of God’s children.


In a world filled with contention and division, where civil discourse has been replaced with judgment and scorn, and friendships are defined by -isms and -ites, I have come to know that there is a clear, simple, and divine example we can look to for unity, love, and belonging. That example is Jesus Christ. I testify that He is the great unifier.


We Are His Friends

In December of 1832, as “appearances of troubles among the nations” were becoming “more visible” than at any time since the organization of the Church, Latter-day Saint leaders in Kirtland, Ohio, gathered for a conference. They prayed “separately and vocally to the Lord to reveal his will unto [them].” In acknowledgement of the prayers of these faithful members during times of intense trouble, the Lord comforted them, addressing the Saints three times with two powerful words: “my friends.”
Jesus Christ has long called His faithful followers His friends. Fourteen times in the Doctrine and Covenants, the Savior uses the term friend to define a sacred and cherished relationship. I am not talking about the word friend as the world defines it—subject to social media followers or “likes.” It cannot be captured in a hashtag or a number on Instagram or X.
Admittedly, as a teenager, I remember dreaded conversations when I heard those painful words “Hey, can we just be friends?” or “Let’s just stay in the friend zone.” Nowhere in holy writ do we hear Him say, “Ye are just my friends.” Rather, He taught that “greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.” And “ye are they whom my Father hath given me; ye are my friends.”
The sentiment is clear: the Savior numbers each of us and watches over us. This watchcare is not trivial or insignificant. Rather, it is exalting, elevating, and eternal. I see the Savior’s declaration “ye are my friends” as a clarion call to build higher and holier relationships among all of God’s children “that we may be one.” We do this as we come together seeking both opportunities to unite and a sense of belonging for all.



We Are One in Him

The Savior beautifully demonstrated this in His call to “come, follow me.” He drew upon the gifts and individual attributes of a diverse group of followers to call His Apostles. He called fishermen, zealots, brothers known for their thunderous personalities, and even a tax collector. Their belief in the Savior and desire to draw unto Him united them. They looked to Him, saw God through Him, and “straightway left their nets, and followed Him.”
I too have seen how building higher and holier relationships brings us together as one. My wife, Jennifer, and I were blessed to raise our five children in New York City. There in that busy metropolis, we formed precious and sacred relationships with neighbors, school friends, business associates, faith leaders, and fellow Saints.
In May of 2020, just as the world was grappling with the spread of a global pandemic, members of the New York City Commission of Religious Leaders met virtually in an abruptly called meeting. There was no agenda. No special guests. Just a request to come together and discuss the challenges we were all facing as faith leaders. The Centers for Disease Control had just reported that our city was the epicenter of the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States. This meant no more gathering. No more coming together.
For these religious leaders, removing the personal ministry, the congregational gathering, and the weekly worship was a devastating blow. Our small group—which included a cardinal, reverend, rabbi, imam, pastor, monsignor, and an elder—listened to, consoled, and supported one another. Instead of focusing on our differences, we saw what we had in common. We spoke of possibilities and then probabilities. We rallied and responded to questions about faith and the future. And then we prayed. Oh, how we prayed.
In a richly diverse city filled with complexity and colliding cultures, we saw our differences dissipate as we came together as friends with one voice, one purpose, and one prayer.
No longer were we looking across the table at each other but heavenward with each other. We left each subsequent meeting more united and ready to pick up our “shovels” and go to work. The collaboration that resulted and the service rendered to thousands of New Yorkers taught me that in a world calling for division, distance, and disengagement, there is always much more that unites us than divides us. The Savior pled, “Be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine.”
Brothers and sisters, we must stop looking for reasons to divide and instead seek opportunities to “be one.” He has blessed us with unique gifts and attributes that invite learning from one another and personal growth. I often told my university students that if I do what you do and you do what I do, we don’t need each other. But because you don’t do what I do and I don’t do what you do, we do need each other. And that need brings us together. To divide and conquer is the adversary’s plan to destroy friendships, families, and faith. It is the Savior who unites.



We Belong to Him

One of the promised blessings of “becoming one” is a powerful sense of belonging. Elder Quentin L. Cook taught that “the essence of truly belonging is to be one with Christ.”
On a recent visit with my family to the West African country of Ghana, I was enamored with a local custom. Upon arriving at a church or home, we were greeted with the words “you are welcome.” When food was served, our host would announce, “You are invited.” These simple greetings were extended with purpose and intentionality. You are welcome. You are invited.
We place similar sacred declarations on our meetinghouse doors. But the sign Visitors Welcome is not enough. Do we warmly welcome all who come through the doors? Brothers and sisters, it is not enough to just sit in the pews. We must heed the Savior’s call to build higher and holier relationships with all of God’s children. We must live our faith! My father often reminded me that simply sitting in a pew on Sunday doesn’t make you a good Christian any more than sleeping in a garage makes you a car.
We must live our life so that the world does not see us but sees Him through us. This does not take place only on Sundays. It takes place at the grocery store, the gas pump, the school meeting, the neighborhood gathering—all places where baptized and unbaptized members of our family work and live.
I worship on Sunday as a reminder that we need each other and together we need Him. Our unique gifts and talents that differentiate us in a secular world unite us in a sacred space. The Savior has called upon us to help one another, lift one another, and edify each other. This is what He did when He healed the woman with an issue of blood, cleansed the leper who pled for His mercy, counseled the young prince who asked what more he could do, loved Nicodemus, who knew but faltered in his faith, and sat with the woman at the well, who did not fit the custom of the day but to whom He declared His messianic mission. This to me is church—a place of gathering and recovery, repair and refocus. As President Russell M. Nelson has taught: “The gospel net is the largest net in the world. God has invited all to come unto Him. … There is room for everyone.”
Some may have had experiences that make you feel you do not belong. The Savior’s message to you and me is the same: “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.” The gospel of Jesus Christ is the perfect place for us. Coming to church offers the hope of better days, the promise that you are not alone, and a family who needs us as much as we need them. Elder D. Todd Christofferson affirms that “being one with the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit is without doubt the ultimate in belonging.” To any who have stepped away and are seeking a chance to return, I offer an eternal truth and invitation: You belong. Come back. It is time.
In a contentious and divided world, I testify that the Savior Jesus Christ is the great unifier. May I invite each of us to be worthy of the Savior’s invitation to “be one” and to boldly declare, as He did, “Ye are my friends.” In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See 4 Nephi 1:17.


Doctrine and Covenants 87 section heading.


“Minute Book 1,” 3, josephsmithpapers.org; spelling modernized.


See Doctrine and Covenants 88:3.


Doctrine and Covenants 88:3, 62, 117.


John 15:13.


Doctrine and Covenants 84:63; see also John 15:14.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Opening Remarks,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 6.


3 Nephi 19:23; see also John 17:22.


Luke 18:22.


See Matthew 4:18–22; Mark 1:16–20; Luke 5:2–11; John 1:40–42.


See Luke 6:15.


See Mark 3:17.


See Matthew 9:9–13; Mark 2:13–14; Luke 5:27–32.


Matthew 4:20.


Doctrine and Covenants 38:27.


Doctrine and Covenants 38:27; see also 4 Nephi 1:15–17.


See 1 Corinthians 12:12–31; Ephesians 4:3–16.


Quentin L. Cook, “Be One with Christ,” Liahona, May 2024, 51.


See 1 Corinthians 12:12–31; Ephesians 4:3–16.


See Matthew 9:20–22; Mark 5:25–34; Luke 8:43–48.


See Matthew 8:1–4; Mark 1:40–45; Luke 5:12–16.


See Matthew 19:16–30; Mark 10:17–31; Luke 18:18–30.


See John 3:1–21.


See John 4:1–42.


Russell M. Nelson, “Peacemakers Needed,” Liahona, May 2023, 101.


Matthew 11:28.


D. Todd Christofferson, “The Doctrine of Belonging,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 56.


Doctrine and Covenants 38:27; see also Doctrine and Covenants 29:13; 35:2; 51:9.


John 15:14; Doctrine and Covenants 84:63.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Be Thou Clean","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Be Thou Clean

By Elder D. Martin Goury
Of the Seventy

Daily repentance allows us to discern the guidance of the Lord through the Holy Ghost.


When I was about five years old, I was playing football with my friends behind the church in my small village in Côte d’Ivoire. I vividly remember the preacher’s call to his congregation to cleanse their clothes in preparation for the Savior’s arrival. Being young, I took this call literally. I ran home as fast as my little legs could carry me and begged my mother to clean my few clothes so that I could be spotless and ready for the Savior’s coming the next day. Although my mother was skeptical about the Savior’s imminent return, she still washed my best outfit.
The next morning, I put on the still slightly damp clothing and eagerly waited for the announcement of the Savior’s arrival. As the day wore on and nothing happened, I decided to go to the meetinghouse. I was deeply disappointed to find that the church was empty and the Savior had not arrived. You can imagine my feelings as I slowly walked home.
Years later, as I was receiving the missionary lessons in preparation to join The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I read the following: “And no unclean thing can enter into his kingdom; therefore nothing entereth into his rest save it be those who have washed their garments in my blood, because of their faith, and the repentance of all their sins, and their faithfulness unto the end.”
The clarification I received at that time helped me to understand the important truth that had eluded my young mind many years prior. The preacher’s message was centered on the importance of spiritual purity. He urged the congregation to seek repentance, make changes in their lives, and turn to the Savior for redemption.
Our Heavenly Father understands our mortal journey and the inevitability of sin in our lives. I am deeply thankful that He has provided a Savior to atone for our transgressions. Through the Savior’s redemptive sacrifice, each of us can repent and seek forgiveness and become clean. Repentance, a foundational principle of the gospel, is essential for our spiritual development and resilience as we navigate life’s challenges.
During the April 2022 general conference, President Russell M. Nelson invited every member of the Church to experience the joy of daily repentance. He said:
“Please do not fear or delay repenting. Satan delights in your misery. Cut it short. Cast his influence out of your life! Start today to experience the joy of putting off the natural man. The Savior loves us always but especially when we repent. …
“If you feel you have strayed off the covenant path too far or too long and have no way to return, that simply is not true.”
If there is something that you have not fully repented of, I encourage you to heed President Nelson’s call not to procrastinate your repentance. It may require some courage to engage in this process; however, I can assure you that the joy that emanates from genuine repentance surpasses understanding. Through repentance, our burdens of guilt are lifted and replaced with a sense of peace and tranquility. As we repent earnestly, we are sanctified through the Savior’s blood, increasing our sensitivity to the promptings and influence of the Holy Ghost.
My eternal companion was born with a hearing impairment and as a result must wear hearing aids. Dust and sweat can affect the performance of these devices, and so each morning I observe her diligently cleaning the connecting tubes before wearing the aids. This simple yet consistent routine eliminates any dirt, moisture, or condensation, thereby improving her ability to hear and communicate effectively. When she overlooks this daily ritual, her ability to hear suffers throughout the day; spoken words gradually fade and eventually become inaudible. Just as her daily hearing aid cleaning allows her to hear clearly, daily repentance allows us to discern the guidance of the Lord through the Holy Ghost.
Near the end of the Lord’s mortal ministry and before His departure to the Garden of Gethsemane, He prepared His disciples to face the upcoming trials. He assured them, saying, “But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.”
One of the Holy Ghost’s essential functions is to caution, lead, and guide every individual who listens to the soft, inner voice. Just as the blocked communication tubes of a hearing aid can hinder proper functionality, our spiritual connection with our Heavenly Father can also be impaired, leading to dangerous misconceptions or a failure to heed His counsel. The advent of the internet has made information more accessible than ever before. This can lead us to turn to the world for guidance rather than to God. President Russell M. Nelson taught, “In coming days, it will not be possible to survive spiritually without the guiding, directing, comforting, and constant influence of the Holy Ghost.”
I am grateful that each of us can receive the gift of the Holy Ghost at the time of our confirmation. However, President Dallin H. Oaks warned that “the blessings available through the gift of the Holy Ghost are conditioned upon worthiness [and] ‘the Spirit of the Lord doth not dwell in unholy temples’ [Helaman 4:24].”
When we consciously choose to follow the guidance of prophets and apostles, our capacity to have the Holy Ghost as a constant companion grows. The Holy Ghost provides clarity in decision-making, prompting thoughts and impressions that align with our Heavenly Father’s will. Having the Holy Ghost as a constant companion is crucial for our spiritual growth.
I was recently assigned to preside over a stake conference at the Salt Lake Granger West Stake in Utah. During this event, I met a stake president who has diligently developed his ability to discern the promptings of the Holy Ghost through righteous living and daily repentance. As part of our ministering efforts, we coordinated visits to three households. Upon completing our final visit, we found ourselves with approximately 30 minutes remaining before our next engagement. As we traveled back to the stake center, President Chesnut received an impression to visit one additional family. We both agreed to follow this prompting.
We proceeded to visit the Jones family, where we discovered Sister Jones confined to bed due to illness. It was apparent that she needed a priesthood blessing. With her permission, we administered to her. As we prepared to depart, Sister Jones asked how we knew of her urgent need for a blessing. The truth is, we didn’t know. However, our Heavenly Father, who was aware of her needs, did know and inspired President Chesnut to visit her home. When we are receptive to the guidance of the still, small voice, we are better equipped to more effectively minister to those in need.
I testify of a kind and loving Heavenly Father. Jesus Christ is the Savior and Redeemer of mankind. I testify that the Atonement of Jesus Christ is real and that as we learn to follow the guidance of the Holy Ghost, He will lead us to repent and use the power of the Savior’s Atonement in our lives. President Russell M. Nelson is the true and living prophet of the Lord, with all priesthood keys on the earth today. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


3 Nephi 27:19.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 98–99.


John 14:26.


Russell M. Nelson, “Revelation for the Church, Revelation for Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2018, 96.


Dallin H. Oaks, “Always Have His Spirit,” Ensign, Nov. 1996, 61.


The name Jones is not the name of the family visited. I have used a random name for their privacy. I have received written approval from President Chesnut to use his name as well as the name of his stake.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Wind Did Never Cease to Blow","year":"2024","month":"10"}


The Wind Did Never Cease to Blow

By Elder Aroldo B. Cavalcante
Of the Seventy

We can help others progress in their journey to receive God’s blessings.


In 2015, in the state of Pernambuco, Brazil, 62 members of the J. Reuben Clark Law Society cooperated with the state Prosecutor’s Office in investigating the legal challenges of residents in four different nursing homes. For five hours one Saturday, these attorneys interviewed over 200 residents one by one, each of whom had been functionally forgotten by society.
During their interviews, they discovered several crimes that had been committed against the elderly residents, such as abandonment, mistreatment, and misappropriation of funds. A key pillar of this law society is to care for the poor and in need. Just two months later, the prosecutor successfully filed charges against the responsible parties.
Their assistance is a perfect example of King Benjamin’s teaching “that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God.”
One resident I personally interviewed during the pro bono project was a kindhearted 93-year-old woman named Lúcia. Grateful for our service, she jokingly exclaimed, “Marry me!”
Surprised, I responded: “Look over there at that beautiful young woman! She is my wife and the state prosecutor.”
She quickly fired back: “So what? She is young, pretty, and can easily get married again. All I have is you!”
The wonderful residents did not have all their problems solved that day. They undoubtedly continued to experience hardship from time to time like the Jaredites in their boats on the challenging journey to the promised land, “buried in the depths of the sea, because of the mountain waves which broke upon them.”
But that Saturday, the nursing home residents knew that regardless of their earthly anonymity, they were known personally by a loving Heavenly Father, One who responds to even the simplest of prayers.
The Master of masters caused “a furious wind” to blow the Jaredites toward promised blessings. Similarly, we can decide to serve as a humble gust of wind in the Lord’s hands. Just as “the wind did never cease to blow” the Jaredites toward the promised land, we can help others progress in their journey to receive God’s blessings.
Several years ago, when Chris, my dear wife, and I were interviewed for my calling as bishop, our stake president asked me to prayerfully consider names to recommend as counselors. After hearing the names I recommended, he said I should know a few things about one of the brethren.
First, this brother could not read. Second, he didn’t have a car he could use to visit members. Third, he always—always—used sunglasses at church. Despite the president’s honest concerns, I felt strongly that I should still recommend him as my counselor, and the stake president supported me.
The Sunday my counselors and I were sustained in sacrament meeting, the surprise on the members’ faces was evident. This dear brother slowly made his way up to the stand, where the overhead lights reflected brightly across his sunglasses.
As he sat by my side, I asked him, “Brother, do you have problems with your vision?”
“No,” he said.
“Then why do you use sunglasses at church?” I asked. “My friend, the members need to see your eyes, and you must be able to see them better too.”
In that moment, he took off his sunglasses and never used them at church again.
This beloved brother served at my side until my release as bishop. Today, he continues to serve faithfully in the Church and is an example of dedication and commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. And yet, years ago, he was an unknown sunglass-wearer sitting essentially forgotten in the pews of the chapel. I often wonder, “How many faithful brothers and sisters sit forgotten among us today?”
Whether we are well-known or forgotten, trials will inevitably come to each one of us. As we turn to the Savior, He can “consecrate [our] afflictions for [our] gain” and help us respond to our trials in a way that facilitates our spiritual progression. Whether for nursing home residents, a misjudged Church member, or anyone else, we can be “the wind [that] did never cease to blow,” bringing hope and guiding others to the covenant path.
Our beloved prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, made an exciting and inspiring invitation to the youth: “I reaffirm strongly that the Lord has asked every worthy, able young man to prepare for and serve a mission. For Latter-day Saint young men, missionary service is a priesthood responsibility. … For you young and able sisters, a mission is also a powerful, but optional, opportunity.”
Every day, thousands of young men and women answer the Lord’s prophetic call by serving as missionaries. You are brilliant, and as President Nelson has said, you can “have more impact on the world than any previous generation!” Of course, that does not mean you will be the best version of yourselves the moment you step foot in the missionary training center.
Instead, you might feel like Nephi, “led by the Spirit, not knowing beforehand the things which [you] should do. Nevertheless [you] went forth.”
Perhaps you feel insecure like Jeremiah did and want to say, “I cannot speak: for I am a child.”
You might even see your personal shortcomings and want to cry out like Moses did: “O my Lord, I am not eloquent … : but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue.”
If any of you beloved and mighty young men and women is having a thought like this right now, remember that the Lord has answered, “Say not, I am a child: for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee.” And He promises, “Therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say.”
Your transformation from your natural to spiritual self will occur “line upon line, precept upon precept” as you earnestly strive to serve Jesus Christ in the mission field through daily repentance, faith, exact obedience, and hard work to “find constantly, teach repentance, and baptize converts.”
Though you wear a name tag, sometimes you may feel unrecognized or forgotten. However, you must know that you have a perfect Heavenly Father, who knows you personally, and a Savior, who loves you. You will have mission leaders who, despite their imperfections, will serve you as “the wind [that] did never cease to blow” in guiding you along your journey of personal conversion.
In the “land that floweth with milk and honey” you will serve in on your mission, you will be spiritually reborn and become a lifelong disciple of Jesus Christ as you draw near to Him. You can come to know that you are never forgotten.
Though some may wait “a long time” for relief, for they “have no man” that can yet help, the Lord Jesus Christ has taught us that no one is ever forgotten by Him. On the contrary, He was a perfect example of seeking out the one in every moment of His mortal ministry.
Each of us—and those around us—faces our own storms of opposition and waves of trials that submerge us daily. But “the wind [will not] cease to blow towards the promised land … ; and thus [we shall be] driven forth before the wind.”
Each of us can be a part of this wind—the same wind that blessed the Jaredites in their journey and the same wind that, with our help, will bless the unrecognized and forgotten to reach their own promised lands.
I testify that Jesus Christ is our Advocate with the Father. He is a living God and acts as a strong wind that will always guide us along the covenant path. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


The J. Reuben Clark Law Society is a nonprofit association formed by lawyers and law students and organized into more than 100 chapters through the world. It was named in honor of Joshua Reuben Clark Jr., who served for many years as a counselor in the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.


Mosiah 2:17.


Pro bono is the reduced form of the phrase in Latin pro bono publico, which means “for the public good” or “for the benefit of the public.” This is a form of voluntary work that, unlike traditional volunteering, requires professional qualifications, although it is unpaid.


Ether 6:6.


Ether 6:5.


See 2 Nephi 2:14, 16.


Ether 6:8.


See Doctrine and Covenants 84:106.


See Abraham 3:25.


2 Nephi 2:2; see also Doctrine and Covenants 122:7.


Russell M. Nelson, “Preaching the Gospel of Peace,” Liahona, May 2022, 6.


Russel M. Nelson, “Hope of Israel” (worldwide youth devotional, June 3, 2018), Gospel Library.


1 Nephi 4:6–7.


Jeremiah 1:6.


Exodus 4:10.


Jeremiah 1:7.


Exodus 4:12.


See Mosiah 3:19.


2 Nephi 28:30.


See Alma 26:22.


Neil L. Andersen, “The Faith to Find and Baptize Converts” (address given at the seminar for new mission presidents, June 25, 2016), 6.


See Deuteronomy 11:8–9.


See “Becoming Lifelong Disciples of Jesus Christ,” Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ (2023), 76–100.


John 5:6–7.


See Luke 10:29.


Ether 6:8.


President Dallin H. Oaks mentioned a painting by Maynard Dixon titled Forgotten Man, which hangs in his office in the Church Administration Building in Salt Lake City: “You see the sun shining on his head. His Heavenly Father knows he’s there. He is forgotten by the passing crowd, but in his struggles, his Heavenly Father knows he’s there. … I have been with that painting for close to 40 years, and it speaks to me and reminds me of things that I need to remember” (in Sarah Jane Weaver, “What I Learned from President Oaks about the ‘Forgotten Man,’” Church News, Sept. 18, 2022, thechurchnews.com).



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Aligning Our Will with His","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Aligning Our Will with His

By Elder Ulisses Soares
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Following the Lord’s will in our life will enable us to find the most precious pearl in the world—the kingdom of heaven.


On a certain occasion, the Savior spoke of a merchant man who was searching for “goodly pearls.” During the merchant man’s search, he found one “of great price.” However, in order to acquire the magnificent pearl, this man had to sell all his possessions, which he promptly and joyfully did.
Through this short and thoughtful parable, the Savior beautifully taught that the kingdom of heaven is likened unto a priceless pearl, truly the most precious treasure that should be desired over all else. The fact that the merchant instantly sold all his possessions to obtain that valuable pearl clearly indicates that we should align our mind and desires with the will of the Lord and willingly do everything we can during our mortal journey to attain the eternal blessings of God’s kingdom.
To be worthy of this great reward, we certainly need, among other things, to give our best effort to set aside all self-centered pursuits and abandon any entanglement that holds us back from full commitment to the Lord and His higher and holier ways. The Apostle Paul refers to these sanctifying pursuits as “hav[ing] the mind of Christ.” As exemplified by Jesus Christ, this means “[doing] always those things that please [the Lord]” in our lives, or as some people say nowadays, this is “doing what works for the Lord.”
In a gospel sense, “[doing] always those things that please [the Lord]” relates to submitting our will to His will. The Savior thoughtfully taught the importance of this principle while instructing His disciples:
“For I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me.
“And this is the Father’s will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day.
“And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day.”
The Savior achieved a perfect and divine level of submission to the Father by allowing His will to be swallowed up in the Father’s will. He once said, “And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him.” In teaching the Prophet Joseph Smith about the anguish and agonies of the Atonement, the Savior said:
“For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent; …
“Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit—and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink—
“Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men.”
During our sojourn in mortality, we often wrestle with what we think we know, what we think is best, and what we assume works for us, as opposed to comprehending what Heavenly Father actually knows, what is eternally best, and what absolutely works for children within His plan. This great wrestle can become very complex, especially considering the prophecies contained in the scriptures for our day: “This know also, that in the last days … men shall be lovers of their own selves, … lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God.”
One sign that indicates fulfillment of this prophecy is the current growing trend in the world, adopted by so many, of people becoming consumed with themselves and constantly proclaiming, “No matter what, I live my own truth or I do what works for me.” As Paul the Apostle said, they “seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ’s.” This way of thinking is often justified as being “authentic” by those who indulge in self-centered pursuits, focus on personal preferences, or want to justify certain types of behavior that frequently don’t match God’s loving plan and His will for them. If we let our heart and mind embrace this way of thinking, we can create significant stumbling blocks for ourselves in acquiring the most priceless pearl that God has lovingly prepared for His children—eternal life.
While it is true that each of us travels an individualized discipleship journey on the covenant path, striving to keep our hearts and minds centered on Christ Jesus, we need to be careful and constantly vigilant to not be tempted to adopt this type of worldly philosophy in our life. Elder Quentin L. Cook said that “being sincerely Christlike is an even more important goal than being authentic.”
My dear friends, when we choose to let God be the most powerful influence in our life over our self-serving pursuits, we can make progress in our discipleship and increase our capacity to unite our mind and heart with the Savior. On the other hand, when we don’t allow God’s way to prevail in our life, we are left to ourselves, and without the Lord’s inspiring guidance, we can justify almost anything we do or don’t do. We can also make excuses for ourselves by doing things our own way, saying in effect, “I am just doing things my way.”
On one occasion, while the Savior was declaring His doctrine, some people, particularly self-righteous Pharisees, rejected His message and boldly declared that they were children of Abraham, implying that their lineage would grant them special privileges in the sight of God. That mentality led them to lean unto their own understanding and to disbelieve what the Savior was teaching. The Pharisees’ reaction to Jesus was clear evidence that their presumptuous attitude left no place in their hearts for the Savior’s words and God’s way. In response, Jesus wisely and courageously declared that if they were true covenant children of Abraham, they would do the works of Abraham, especially considering that the God of Abraham was standing before them and teaching them the truth at that very moment.
Brothers and sisters, as you can see, acting on these mental gymnastics of “what works for me” versus doing “what always pleases the Lord” is not a new trend that is unique to our day. It is an age-old mentality that has crossed the centuries and often blinds the wise-in-their-own-eyes and confuses and exhausts many of God’s children. This mentality is, in fact, an old trick of the adversary; it is a deceptive path that carefully leads God’s children away from the true and faithful covenant path. While personal circumstances such as genetics, geography, and physical and mental challenges do influence our journey, in things that truly matter, there is an inner space where we are free to choose whether or not we will decide to follow the pattern the Lord has prepared for our life. Truly, “He marked the path and led the way, and ev’ry point [defined].”
As Christ’s disciples, we desire to walk the path He marked for us during His mortal ministry. We not only desire to do His will and all that will please Him but also seek to emulate Him. As we strive to be true to every covenant we have entered into and live “by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God,” we will be protected against falling victim to the sins and errors of the world—errors of philosophy and doctrine that would lead us away from those most precious pearls.
I have been personally inspired by how such spiritual submissiveness to God has impacted the lives of faithful disciples of Christ as they chose to do those things that work for and are pleasing in the sight of the Lord. I know a young man who was unsettled about going on a mission but felt inspired to go and serve the Lord when he listened to a senior leader of the Church sharing his own personal testimony and sacred experience of serving as a missionary.
In his own words, this young man, now a returned missionary, said: “As I listened to the testimony of an Apostle of the Savior Jesus Christ, I was able to feel of God’s love for me, and I desired to share that love with others. At that moment I knew that I should serve a mission despite my fears, doubts, and concerns. I felt totally confident in the blessings and promises of God for His children. Today, I am a new person; I have a testimony that this gospel is true and that the Church of Jesus Christ has been restored on earth.” This young man chose the Lord’s way and became an example of a true disciple in every aspect.
A faithful young woman decided not to compromise her standards when she was asked to dress immodestly to fit into the business division of the fashion company where she worked. Understanding that her body is a sacred gift from our Heavenly Father and a place where the Spirit can dwell, she was moved to live by a standard higher than the world’s. She not only gained the confidence of those who saw her living by the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ but also preserved her job, which for a moment was in jeopardy. Her willingness to do what was pleasing in the sight of the Lord, rather than what worked for the world, gave her covenant confidence amidst difficult choices.
Brothers and sisters, we are constantly confronted by similar decisions in our daily journey. It takes a courageous and a willing heart to pause and pursue an honest and meek introspection to acknowledge the presence of weaknesses of the flesh in our life that may impede our ability to submit ourselves to God, and ultimately decide to adopt His way rather than our own. The ultimate test of our discipleship is found in our willingness to give up and lose our old self and submit our heart and our whole soul to God so that His will becomes ours.
One of the most glorious moments of mortality occurs when we discover the joy that comes when doing always those things that “work for and please the Lord” and “what works for us” become one and the same! To decisively and unquestioningly make the Lord’s will our own requires majestic and heroic discipleship! At that sublime moment, we become consecrated to the Lord, and we totally yield our wills to Him. Such spiritual submissiveness, so to speak, is beautiful, powerful, and transformational.
I testify to you that following the Lord’s will in our life will enable us to find the most precious pearl in the world—the kingdom of heaven. I pray that each of us, in our time and turn, will be able to declare, with covenant confidence, to our Heavenly Father and Savior Jesus Christ that “what works for Thee works for me.” I say these things in the sacred name of the Savior Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Matthew 13:45–46.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Kingdom of God or Kingdom of Heaven” and “Eternal Life,” Gospel Library.


See Doctrine and Covenants 68:4.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Endure,” Gospel Library.


1 Corinthians 2:16; see also Philippians 4:1.


John 8:29; see also 1 John 3:22.


John 6:38–40.


See Mosiah 15:7.


John 8:29.


Doctrine and Covenants 19:16, 18–19.


2 Timothy 3:1–2, 4.


Philippians 2:21.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Eternal Life,” Gospel Library.


See Philippians 4:7; Doctrine and Covenants 43:34.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Tempt, Temptation,” Gospel Library.


Quentin L. Cook, “‘Fear Not … in Me Your Joy Is Full’ (D&amp;C 101:36)” (worldwide devotional for young adults, Sept. 11, 2016), Gospel Library.


See Proverbs 3:5; John 8:33–42; see also the works of Abraham: Abraham converted others to the gospel (Genesis 12:5); he avoided strife (Genesis 13:7–9); he was obedient to God (Genesis 12:1–9; 15:1–6; 22:1–19); he welcomed heavenly messengers (Genesis 18:1–8); and he exercised tremendous faith (Genesis 22:1–19).


See Proverbs 3:5–7.


See 2 Nephi 28:21–23, 26.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Agency,” Gospel Library.


“How Great the Wisdom and the Love,” Hymns, no. 195.


Matthew 4:4.


See Guide to the Scriptures, “Consecrate, Law of Consecration,” Gospel Library.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Holiness to the Lord in Everyday Life","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Holiness to the Lord in Everyday Life

By Elder Gerrit W. Gong
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Holiness to the Lord makes daily living sacred. It draws us closer and happier to the Lord and each other.


Our recent Gong family reunion included a fun talent show, complete with a dad jokes contest.
But this contest was unusual. On one team was Grandpa (me) and two of the grandchildren, ages 12 and 11. On the other team was an artificial intelligence (AI) program prompted by a cousin to tell dad jokes in the style of Gerrit W. Gong. Grandpa Gerrit Gong versus AI Gerrit Gong.
The grandchildren and I went first.
What do you call a dinosaur who crashes his car? Tyrannosaurus Wrecks.
AI Gerrit Gong was instructed—think like Gerrit W. Gong. Talk like him.
AI Gerrit Gong—“Here is a dad joke as if spoken by Gerrit W. Gong, embracing his warm, thoughtful, and uplifting style: Why did the humble tree make people smile? Because it was rooted in love and reached out with branches of kindness. Like that tree, we too can find strength in our roots and joy in extending kindness to others.”
Well, what do you think? That’s why they’re called dad jokes.
All around us are opportunities to laugh, delight, see with grateful eyes. Ours is a gospel of joy and holiness in everyday life. Holiness sets things apart for sacred purpose. But holiness also invites us to infuse daily living with the sacred—to rejoice in daily bread amidst this world’s thistles and thorns. To walk with the Lord, we must become holy, for He is holy, and to help us become holy, the Lord invites us to walk with Him.
We each have a story. As Sister Gong and I meet you—Church members and friends in many places and circumstances—your stories of holiness to the Lord in everyday life inspire us. You live seven Cs: communion with God, community and compassion with each other, commitment and covenant with God, family, and friends—centered in Jesus Christ.
Growing evidence highlights this striking fact: religious believers are on average happier, healthier, and more fulfilled than those without spiritual commitment or connection. Happiness and life satisfaction, mental and physical health, meaning and purpose, character and virtue, close social relationships, even financial and material stability—on each measure, religious practitioners flourish.
They enjoy better physical and mental health and greater life satisfaction across all ages and demographic groups.
What researchers call “religious structural stability” offers clarity, purpose, and inspiration amidst life’s twists and turns. The household of faith and community of Saints combat isolation and the lonely crowd. Holiness to the Lord says no to the profane, no to snarky cleverness at others’ expense, no to algorithms that monetize anger and polarization. Holiness to the Lord says yes to the sacred and reverent, yes to our becoming our freest, happiest, most authentic, best selves as we follow Him in faith.
What does holiness to the Lord in everyday life look like?
Holiness to the Lord in everyday life looks like two faithful young adults, married for a year, sharing with authenticity and vulnerability gospel covenants, sacrifice, and service in their unfolding lives.
She begins, “In high school, I was in a dark place. I felt like God wasn’t there for me. One night, a text from a friend said, ‘Hey, have you read Alma 36 ever?’
“As I started reading,” she said, “I was overcome with peace and love. I felt like I was being given this big hug. When I read Alma 36:12, I knew Heavenly Father saw me and knew exactly how I was feeling.”
She continues, “Before we got married, I was honest with my fiancé that I didn’t have a great testimony of tithing. Why did God need us to give money when others had so much to give? My fiancé helped explain it’s not about money but following a commandment asked of us. He challenged me to start paying tithing.
“I really saw my testimony grow,” she said. “Sometimes money gets tight, but we saw so many blessings, and somehow paychecks were enough.”
Also, “in my nursing class,” she said, “I was the only member of the Church and the only one married. Many times I left class frustrated or crying because I felt classmates singled me out and made negative comments about my beliefs, my wearing my garments, or my being married so young.”
Yet she continues, “This past semester I learned how to better voice my beliefs and be a good gospel example. My knowledge and testimony grew because I was tested in my ability to stand alone and be strong in what I believe.”
The young husband adds, “Before my mission I had offers to play college baseball. Making the difficult decision, I put those offers aside and went to serve the Lord. I wouldn’t trade those two years for anything.
“Returning home,” he said, “I expected a difficult transition but found myself stronger, faster, and healthier. I was throwing harder than when I left. I had more offers to play than when I left, including my dream school. And, most importantly,” he said, “I rely upon the Lord more than ever.”
He concludes, “As a missionary I taught that Heavenly Father promises us power in our prayers, but sometimes I forget that for myself.”
Our treasury of missionary holiness-to-the-Lord blessings is rich and full. Finances, timing, and other circumstances are often not easy. But when missionaries of all ages and backgrounds consecrate holiness to the Lord, things can work out in the Lord’s time and way.
Now with a 48-year perspective, a senior missionary shares, “My dad wanted me to get a college education, not go on a mission. Shortly after that, he had a heart attack and died at age 47. I felt guilty. How could I make things right with my father?
“Later,” he continues, “after I decided to serve a mission, I saw my father in a dream. Peaceful and contented, he was happy I would serve.”
This senior missionary continues, “As Doctrine and Covenants section 138 teaches, I believe my father could serve as a missionary in the spirit world. I picture my father helping our great-grandfather, who left Germany at age 17 and was lost to the family, be found again.”
His wife adds, “Among the five brothers in my husband’s family, the four who served missions are the ones with college degrees.”
Holiness to the Lord in everyday life looks like a young returning missionary who learned to let God prevail in his life. Earlier, when asked to bless someone who was very sick, this missionary said, “I have faith; I will bless him to recover. Yet,” the returning missionary says, “I learned in that moment to pray not for what I wanted but for what the Lord knew the person needed. I blessed the brother with peace and comfort. He later passed away peacefully.”
Holiness to the Lord in everyday life feels like a spark arcing across the veil to connect, comfort, and strengthen. An administrator at a major university says he feels individuals he knows only by reputation praying for him. Those individuals devoted their lives to the university and continue to care about its mission and students.
A sister does her best each day, after her husband was unfaithful to her and the children. I deeply admire her and others like her. One day while folding laundry, her hand on a stack of garments, she sighed to herself, “What’s the point?” She felt a tender voice assure her, “Your covenants are with me.”
For 50 years, another sister yearned for a relationship with her father. “Growing up,” she says, “there were my brothers and my dad, and then there was me—the only daughter. All I ever wanted was to be ‘good enough’ for my dad.
“Then my mom passed away! She was my only liaison between my dad and me.
“One day,” the sister said, “I heard a voice say, ‘Invite your dad and take him to the temple with you.’ That was the beginning of a twice-a-month date with my daddy to the house of the Lord. I told my dad I loved him. He told me he loved me too.
“Spending time in the house of the Lord has healed us. My mom could not help us on earth. It took her being on the other side of the veil to help mend what was broken. The temple completed our journey to wholeness as an eternal family.”
The father says, “The temple dedication was a great spiritual experience for me and my only daughter. Now we attend together and feel our love strengthen.”
Holiness to the Lord in everyday life includes tender moments when loved ones pass. Earlier this year, my dear mother, Jean Gong, slipped into the next life days before her 98th birthday.
If you asked my mother, “Would you like rocky road, white chocolate ginger, or strawberry ice cream?” Mom would say, “Yes, please, may I taste each one?” Who could say no to your mother, especially when she loved all of life’s flavors?
I once asked Mom which decisions had most shaped her life.
She said, “Being baptized a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and moving from Hawaii to the mainland, where I met your father.”
Baptized as a 15-year-old, the only member of her large family to join our Church, my mother had covenant faith and trust in the Lord that blessed her life and all our family generations. I miss my mother, as you miss members in your family. But I know my mother is not gone. She is just not here now. I honor her and all who pass as valiant examples of everyday holiness to the Lord.
Of course, holiness to the Lord in everyday life includes coming more often to the Lord in His holy house. This is true whether we are Church members or friends.
Three friends came to the Bangkok Thailand Temple open house.
“This is a place of super healing,” said one.
In the baptistry, another said, “When I am here, I want to be washed clean and never sin again.”
The third said, “Can you feel the spiritual power?”
With nine sacred words, our temples invite and proclaim:
“Holiness to the Lord.
“The House of the Lord.”
Holiness to the Lord makes daily living sacred. It draws us closer and happier to the Lord and each other and prepares us to live with God our Father, Jesus Christ, and our loved ones.
As did my friend, you may wonder if your Heavenly Father loves you. The answer is a resounding, absolute yes! We can feel His love as we make holiness to the Lord ours each day, happy and forever. May we do so, I pray in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


From Old Testament times, we are taught, “Ye shall therefore sanctify yourselves, and ye shall be holy; for I am holy” (Leviticus 11:44). We are to walk in holiness before the Lord (see Doctrine and Covenants 20:69), stand in holy places (see Doctrine and Covenants 45:32), keep the Sabbath day holy (see Exodus 20:8), wear holy garments (see Exodus 29:29), use holy anointing oil (see Exodus 30:25), be blessed by holy prophets (see Doctrine and Covenants 10:46), and rely upon holy scriptures (see Doctrine and Covenants 20:11), holy laws (see Doctrine and Covenants 20:20), and holy angels (see Doctrine and Covenants 20:6). Holiness to the Lord is intended to bless all aspects of our daily life.


See Moses 6:34.


See “Religion and Spirituality: Tools for Better Wellbeing?,” Gallup Blog, Oct. 10, 2023, news.gallup.com. “Worldwide, people with a greater commitment to spirituality or religion have better wellbeing in many respects”—including positive emotions, sense of purpose, community engagement, and social connections (Faith and Wellness: The Worldwide Connection between Spirituality and Wellbeing [2023], 4, faithandmedia.com/research/gallup).


Each quoted experience is shared—with my admiration and appreciation—in the words of the individuals involved and by their permission.


Today in the Church, young adults ages 18–35 (including both young single and young married adults) and single adults (ages 36–45) constitute one-third (32.5 percent) of total Church members. Of those 5.623 million Church members, young adults ages 18–35 total in number 3.625 million (of which 694,000 are married), and single adults ages 36–45 total in number 1.998 million. Our young and single adults are outstanding; each one is precious. Each has an individual story of faith, seeking, resilience, and compassion. The example shared here is representative of the remarkable range of stories and experience young and single adults share as I meet you in many settings and circumstances across the Church.


Currently, some 77,500 missionaries are serving in 450 missions worldwide. This includes young teaching missionaries, young service missionaries, and senior couples, but not 27,800 senior service missionaries and long-term volunteers. Each missionary story, from preparation through service and return, is individual and full of holiness to the Lord in personal experience.
Many missionary experiences reflect a spiritual pattern. This includes individual testimony of selfless inviting and helping others to come to Jesus Christ and of the missionary becoming a disciple of Jesus Christ and Preach My Gospel missionary. Preach My Gospel missionaries are changed, even transformed, by their testimony experiences. They learn to love individuals, places, languages, and cultures. They fulfill prophecy by bringing the glad tidings of the fulness of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ to nations, kindreds, and peoples. They find good in and learn to live with every companion. They work with members, leaders, and friends in many circumstances and backgrounds, and so much more.
Preach My Gospel missionaries nurture faith and confidence. They build consecrated companionships. They learn that obedience brings blessings and miracles. In a myriad other personalized ways, they truly become and know by covenant: “I am a disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God” (3 Nephi 5:13).


Some of our most faithful and courageous Church members, sisters and brothers, find themselves facing situations they never expected and never would have chosen. These true Saints carry on, day in and day out, often waiting on the Lord. The Lord is aware of each and, as this example tenderly shares, desires to encourage and strengthen each of us in His time and way.


There is much longing for relationships with parents and children. I am deeply grateful for each situation in which, even after many years, reconciliation, forgiveness, and covenant belonging are created or restored. This good sister does not want anyone to think poorly of her father. She says, “He is a fine and faithful leader and a good father.”


A paradox of parenting is that children are deeply shaped by how they are nurtured, yet they usually remember little of the early years when their mothers tirelessly, selflessly mother. Words are insufficient to express the truism that my understanding, love, and appreciation for my father and mother expanded and deepened as I became a husband, parent, and grandparent. Reflecting the generational nature of the plan of happiness, we can, in temple mirrors of eternity, see ourselves as a mother, grandmother, great-grandmother in one direction and as a daughter, granddaughter, great-granddaughter in the other direction.


Today, approximately 60 percent of Church members worldwide live within 50 miles (80 km, or about an hour travel time in many places) of a house of the Lord. In coming years, as announced temples are completed, approximately three-fourths of Church members will live within an hour of a house of the Lord. Depending on circumstances, that is hopefully close enough to come often to the Lord in His holy house, thereby blessing generations of precious family members and ourselves and our posterity.


On our temples, the standard inscription is “Holiness to the Lord, the House of the Lord.” A few temples include more than this inscription, such as adding the name of the Church. A few temples have the inscription reversed: “The House of the Lord, Holiness to the Lord” (in Atlanta, Los Angeles, and San Diego in the United States). The Logan Utah Temple inscription simply states, “Holiness to the Lord.”



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Joy of Our Redemption","year":"2024","month":"10"}


The Joy of Our Redemption

By Sister Kristin M. Yee
Second Counselor in the Relief Society General Presidency

Jesus Christ’s love and power can save each of us from our mistakes, weaknesses, and sins and help us to become something more.


About 10 years ago I felt impressed to paint a portrait of the Savior. Though I am an artist, this felt a bit overwhelming. How was I to paint a portrait of Jesus Christ that captured His Spirit? Where was I to begin? And where would I find the time?
Even with my questions, I decided to move forward and trust that the Lord would help me. But I had to keep moving and leave the possibilities to Him. I prayed, pondered, researched, and sketched and was blessed to find help and resources. And what was a white canvas started to become something more.

The process wasn’t easy. Sometimes it didn’t look as I had hoped. Sometimes there were moments of inspired strokes and ideas. And many times, I just had to try again and again and again.
When I thought the oil painting was finally complete and dry, I began to apply a transparent varnish to protect it from dirt and dust. As I did, I noticed the hair in the painting start to change, smear, and dissolve. I quickly realized that I had applied the varnish too soon, that part of the painting was still wet!
I had literally wiped away a portion of my painting with the varnish. Oh, how my heart sank. I felt as though I had just destroyed what God had helped me to do. I cried and felt sick inside. In despair, I did what anyone would typically do in a situation like this: I called my mother. She wisely and calmly said, “You won’t get back what you had, but do the very best you can with what you’ve got.”



And I Partook, by Kristin M. Yee


So I prayed and pled for help and painted through the night to repair things. And I remember looking at the painting in the morning—it looked better than it did before. How was that possible? What I thought was a mistake without mend was an opportunity for His merciful hand to be manifest. He was not done with the painting, and He was not done with me. What joy and relief filled my heart. I praised the Lord for His mercy, for this miracle that not only saved the painting but taught me more about His love and power to save each of us from our mistakes, weaknesses, and sins and to help us become something more.
Just as the depth of my gratitude for the Savior grew as He mercifully helped me to repair the “unrepairable” painting, so has my personal love and gratitude for my Savior intensified as I’ve sought to work with Him on my weaknesses and to be forgiven of my mistakes. I will forever be grateful to my Savior that I can change and be cleansed. He has my heart, and I hope to do whatever He would have me do and become.
Repenting allows us to feel God’s love and to know and love Him in ways we would never otherwise know. Of the woman who anointed the Savior’s feet, He said, “Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little.” She loved Jesus much, for He had forgiven her much.
There is such relief and hope in knowing that we can try again—that, as Elder David A. Bednar taught, we can receive an ongoing remission of our sins through the sanctifying power of the Holy Ghost as we truly and sincerely repent.
The redeeming power of Jesus Christ is one of the greatest promised blessings of our covenants. Ponder this as you participate in sacred ordinances. Without it, we could not return home to the presence of our Father in Heaven and those we love.
I know that our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, is mighty to save. As the Son of God, who atoned for the sins of the world and laid down His own life and took it up again, He holds the power of redemption and resurrection. He has made possible immortality for all and eternal life for those who choose Him. I know that through His atoning sacrifice, we can repent and truly be cleansed and redeemed. It is a miracle He loves you and me in this way.
He has said, “Will ye not now return unto me, and repent of your sins, and be converted, that I may heal you?” He can heal the “waste places” of your soul—the places made dry, harsh, and desolate by sin and sorrow—and “make [your] wilderness like Eden.”
Just as we cannot comprehend the agony and depth of Christ’s suffering in Gethsemane and on the cross, so we “cannot measure the bounds nor fathom the depths of [His] divine forgiveness,” mercy, and love.
You may feel at times that it’s not possible to be redeemed, that perhaps you are an exception to God’s love and the Savior’s atoning power because of what you are struggling with or because of what you’ve done. But I testify that you are not beneath the Master’s reach. The Savior “descended below all things” and is in a divine position to lift you and claim you from the darkest abyss and bring you into “his marvellous light.” Through His sufferings, He has made a way for each of us to overcome our personal weaknesses and sins. “He has all power to save every man that believeth on his name and bringeth forth fruit meet for repentance.”
Just as it required work and pleading for heaven’s help to repair the painting, it takes work, sincerity of heart, and humility to bring “forth fruit meet for repentance.” These fruits include exercising our faith and trust in Jesus Christ and His atoning sacrifice, offering to God a broken heart and a contrite spirit, confessing and forsaking sin, restoring that which has been damaged to the best of our ability, and striving to live righteously.
To truly repent and change, we must first be “convinced of our sins.” A person does not see the need to take medicine unless they understand that they are ill. There may be times we may not be willing to look inside ourselves and see that which really needs healing and repair.
In C. S. Lewis’s writings, Aslan poses these words to a man who has entangled himself in his own devices: “Oh [humankind], how cleverly you defend yourselves [from] all that might do you good!”
Where might you and I be defending ourselves from those things that might do us good?
Let us not defend ourselves from the good that God desires to bless us with. From the love and mercy that He desires us to feel. From the light and knowledge He desires to bestow upon us. From the healing that He knows we so readily need. From the deeper covenant relationship He intends for all His sons and daughters.
I pray we may lay aside any “weapons of war” that we’ve consciously or even unconsciously taken up to defend ourselves from the blessings of God’s love. Weapons of pride, selfishness, fear, hate, offense, complacency, unrighteous judgment, jealousies—anything that would keep us from loving God with all our hearts and keeping all our covenants with Him.
As we live our covenants, the Lord can give us the help and power we need to both recognize and overcome our weaknesses, including the spiritual parasite of pride. Our prophet has said:
“Repentance is the pathway to purity, and purity brings power.”
“And oh, how we will need His power in the days ahead.”
Like my painting, the Lord is not done with us when we make a mistake, nor does He flee when we falter. Our need for healing and help is not a burden to Him, but the very reason He came. The Savior Himself said:
“Behold, I have come unto the world to bring redemption unto the world, to save the world from sin.”
“Mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive; and blessed are those who come unto me.”
So come—come ye that are weary, worn, and sad; come and leave your labors and find rest in Him who loves you most. Take His yoke upon you, for He is gentle and lowly in heart.
Our Heavenly Father and Savior see you. They know your heart. They care about what you care about, including those you love.
The Savior can redeem that which was lost, including broken and fractured relationships. He has made a way for all that is fallen to be redeemed—to breathe life into that which feels dead and hopeless.
If you are struggling with a situation you think you should have overcome by now, don’t give up. Be patient with yourself, keep your covenants, repent often, seek the help of your leaders if needed, and go to the house of the Lord as regularly as you can. Listen for and heed the promptings He sends you. He will not abandon His covenant relationship with you.
There have been difficult and complex relationships in my life that I have struggled with and sincerely sought to improve. At times I felt like I was failing more often than not. I wondered, “Did I not fix things the last time? Did I not truly overcome my weakness?” I’ve learned over time that I am not necessarily defective; rather, there is often more to work on and more healing that is needed.
Elder D. Todd Christofferson taught: “Surely the Lord smiles upon one who desires to come to judgment worthily, who resolutely labors day by day to replace weakness with strength. Real repentance, real change may require repeated attempts, but there is something refining and holy in such striving. Divine forgiveness and healing flow quite naturally to such a soul.”
Each day is a new day filled with hope and possibilities because of Jesus Christ. Each day you and I can come to know, as Mother Eve proclaimed, “the joy of our redemption,” the joy of being made whole, the joy of feeling God’s unfailing love for you.
I know that our Father in Heaven and Savior love you. Jesus Christ is the Savior and Redeemer of all mankind. He lives. Through His atoning sacrifice, the bands of sin and death were forever broken so that we might be free to choose healing, redemption, and eternal life with those we love. And I testify of these things in His name, Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Matthew 19:26.


“Once we make a covenant with God, we leave neutral ground forever. God will not abandon His relationship with those who have forged such a bond with Him. In fact, all those who have made a covenant with God have access to a special kind of love and mercy. In the Hebrew language, that covenantal love is called hesed (חֶסֶד)” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” Liahona, Oct. 2022, 5).


“When you and I also enter that path, we have a new way of life. We thereby create a relationship with God that allows Him to bless and change us. The covenant path leads us back to Him. If we let God prevail in our lives, that covenant will lead us closer and closer to Him. All covenants are intended to be binding. They create a relationship with everlasting ties” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 5).


See Alma 26:35–36.


See Alma 22:18: “I will give away all my sins to know thee.”


Luke 7:47; see also verses 37–50.


Speaking of the sacrament, Elder David A. Bednar said:
“As we prepare conscientiously and participate in this holy ordinance with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, then the promise is that we may always have the Spirit of the Lord to be with us. And by the sanctifying power of the Holy Ghost as our constant companion, we can always retain a remission of our sins” (“Always Retain a Remission of Your Sins,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2016, 61–62).
“In the process of coming unto the Savior and spiritual rebirth, receiving the sanctifying power of the Holy Ghost in our lives creates the possibility of an ongoing cleansing of our soul from sin. This joyous blessing is vital because ‘no unclean thing can dwell with God’ [1 Nephi 10:21]” (“Always Retain a Remission of Your Sins,” 61).
Elder Bednar taught at the 2023 mission leadership seminar: “And by the sanctifying power of the Holy Ghost as our constant companion, we can always retain a remission of our sins. Thus, the gospel of Jesus Christ provides second, and third, and fourth, and endless opportunities to retain a remission of our sins” (in Rachel Sterzer Gibson, “Teach to Build Faith in Jesus Christ, Elder Bednar Instructs,” Church News, June 23, 2023, thechurchnews.com).


“The Prophet Joseph Smith summarized succinctly the essential role of priesthood ordinances in the gospel of Jesus Christ: ‘Being born again, comes by the Spirit of God through ordinances’ [Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2007), 95]. This penetrating statement emphasizes the roles of both the Holy Ghost and sacred ordinances in the process of spiritual rebirth. …
“Holy ordinances are central in the Savior’s gospel and in the process of coming unto Him and seeking spiritual rebirth. …
“The ordinances of salvation and exaltation administered in the Lord’s restored Church are far more than rituals or symbolic performances. Rather, they constitute authorized channels through which the blessings and powers of heaven can flow into our individual lives. …
“Ordinances received and honored with integrity are essential to obtaining the power of godliness and all of the blessings made available through the Savior’s Atonement” (David A. Bednar, “Always Retain a Remission of Your Sins,” 59–60).


See John 10:17–18; 3 Nephi 9:22.


See Joseph Smith Translation, John 1:16; Jacob 6:9; Moses 1:39.


See Alma 12:33–34.


See John 3:16.


3 Nephi 9:13.


“I plead with you to come unto Him so that He can … heal you from sin as you repent. He will heal you from sadness and fear. He will heal you from the wounds of this world” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Answer Is Always Jesus Christ,” Liahona, May 2023, 127).


Isaiah 51:3; see also Isaiah 58:10–12; Ezekiel 36:33–36.


James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ (1916), 265.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 5–7; see also endnotes 2 and 3 in this message.


Doctrine and Covenants 88:6; see also Doctrine and Covenants 122:7–9.


1 Peter 2:9; see also Alma 26:16–17.


Alma 12:15; emphasis added.


See Alma 34:17.


See 2 Corinthians 7:10; 3 Nephi 9:15–22.


See Doctrine and Covenants 58:43; 64:7.


See Mosiah 27:32–37; Alma 26:30.


See Doctrine and Covenants 1:32.


See Alma 24:8–10.


See Robert L. Millet, Becoming New: A Doctrinal Commentary on the Writings of Paul (2022), 26.


C. S. Lewis, The Magician’s Nephew (1955), 185.


See Mosiah 4:6–9.


See Alma 12:9–10; 26:22; 3 Nephi 26:9.


“The covenant path is all about our relationship with God” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 11; see also endnotes 2 and 3 in this message).


See Alma 24:17–19.


See Doctrine and Covenants 67:10.


See Jacob 4:13. “Those who do not see their weaknesses do not progress. Your awareness of your weakness is a blessing as it helps you remain humble and keeps you turning to the Savior. The Spirit not only comforts you, but He is also the agent by which the Atonement works a change in your very nature. Then weak things become strong” (Henry B. Eyring, “My Peace I Leave with You,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2017, 16).


Russell M. Nelson, “We Can Do Better and Be Better,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 68.


“Everything taught in the temple, through instruction and through the Spirit, increases our understanding of Jesus Christ. His essential ordinances bind us to Him through sacred priesthood covenants. Then, as we keep our covenants, He endows us with His healing, strengthening power. And oh, how we will need His power in the days ahead” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 93–94).


3 Nephi 9:21.


3 Nephi 9:14.


See Erik Dewar, “Come Find His Rest” (song, 2024); see also Matthew 11:28–30.


See Deuteronomy 30:20; John 11:25; Ether 3:14; Doctrine and Covenants 88:6, 13.


“My dear brothers and sisters, here is my promise. Nothing will help you more to hold fast to the iron rod than worshipping in the temple as regularly as your circumstances permit. Nothing will protect you more as you encounter the world’s mists of darkness. Nothing will bolster your testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ and His Atonement or help you understand God’s magnificent plan more. Nothing will soothe your spirit more during times of pain. Nothing will open the heavens more. Nothing!” (Russell M. Nelson, “Rejoice in the Gift of Priesthood Keys,” Liahona, May 2024, 122).


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Everlasting Covenant,” 5.


See Russell M. Nelson, “The Answer Is Always Jesus Christ,” 127; see also endnote 14 in this message.


D. Todd Christofferson, “The Divine Gift of Repentance,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2011, 39.


Moses 5:11.


See 2 Nephi 2:26–28.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Man Who Communed with Jehovah","year":"2024","month":"10"}


The Man Who Communed with Jehovah

By Elder Kyle S. McKay
Of the Seventy

Joseph Smith was “blessed to open the last dispensation,” and we are blessed that he did.


My purpose this day and always is to testify of Jesus Christ, that He is the Son of God, the Creator and Savior of the world, our Deliverer and Redeemer. Because “the fundamental principles of our religion are the testimony of the Apostles and Prophets, concerning Jesus Christ,” today I share with you my knowledge and testimony of the Savior as they have been strengthened and deepened by the life and teachings of one key apostle and prophet.


The Beginning of Wisdom

On the morning of a beautiful clear day early in the spring of 1820, 14-year-old Joseph Smith entered a grove of trees near his family’s home to pray about his sins and to ask which church to join. His sincere prayer, offered with unwavering faith, received the attention of the most powerful forces in the universe, including the Father and the Son. And the devil. Each of these had an intense interest in that prayer and in that boy.
What we now call the First Vision marked the beginning of the Restoration of all things in this last dispensation. But for Joseph, the experience was also personal and preparatory. All he wanted was forgiveness and direction. The Lord gave him both. The instruction to “join none of [the churches]” was directive. The words “Thy sins are forgiven thee” were redemptive.
For all the beautiful truths we might learn from that First Vision, perhaps Joseph’s main takeaway was simply, “I had found the testimony of James to be true—that a man who lacked wisdom might ask of God, and obtain.”
As one scholar noted: “The real resonance of the First Vision today is to know that it’s the nature of God to give to those who lack wisdom. … The God that reveals Himself to Joseph Smith in the sacred grove is a God who answers teenagers in times of trouble.”
Joseph’s experience in the grove gave him confidence to ask for forgiveness and direction for the rest of his life. His experience has also given me confidence to ask for forgiveness and direction for the rest of my life.



Regular Repentance

On September 21, 1823, Joseph earnestly prayed for forgiveness, confident that because of his experience in the grove three years earlier, heaven would respond again. And it did. The Lord sent an angel, Moroni, to instruct Joseph and inform him of an ancient record he would later translate by the gift and power of God—the Book of Mormon.
Almost 13 years after that, Joseph and Oliver Cowdery knelt in solemn, silent prayer in the newly dedicated Kirtland Temple. We do not know what they prayed for, but their prayers likely included a plea for forgiveness, for, as they arose, the Savior appeared and declared, “Behold, your sins are forgiven you; you are clean before me.”
In the months and years after this experience, Joseph and Oliver would sin again. And again. But in that moment, for that moment, in response to their plea and in preparation for the glorious restoration of priesthood keys that was about to happen, Jesus made them sinless.
Joseph’s life of regular repentance gives me confidence to “come boldly unto the throne of grace, that [I] may obtain mercy.” I have learned that Jesus Christ truly is “of a forgiving disposition.” It is neither His mission nor His nature to condemn. He came to save.



Inquiring of the Lord

As part of the promised “restitution of all things,” the Lord, through Joseph Smith, brought forth the Book of Mormon and other revelations that contain the fulness of His gospel. Vital truths were given clarity and completeness as Joseph repeatedly inquired of the Lord for direction. Consider the following:


The Father and the Son have bodies “as tangible as man’s.”


Jesus took upon Himself not only our sins but also our sicknesses, afflictions, and infirmities.


His Atonement was so excruciating it caused Him to bleed from every pore.


We are saved by His grace “after all we can do.”


There are conditions to Christ’s mercy.


As we come unto Christ, He will not only forgive our sins, but He will also change our very nature so “that we have no more disposition to do evil.”


Christ always commands His people to build temples, where He manifests Himself unto them and endows them with power from on high.


I testify that all these things are true and necessary. They represent only a fraction of the fulness that was restored by Jesus Christ through Joseph Smith in response to Joseph’s recurring requests for direction.



Rolling on This Kingdom

In 1842, Joseph wrote of amazing things that would come to pass in this last dispensation. He declared that during our day, “the heavenly Priesthood will unite with the earthly, to bring about those great purposes; and whilst we are thus united in the one common cause, to roll forth the kingdom of God, the heavenly Priesthood are not idle spectators.”
To his friend Benjamin Johnson, Joseph said, “Benjamin, [if I die] I [would] not be far away from you, and if on the other side of the veil, I [would] still be working with you, and with a power greatly increased, to roll on this kingdom.”
On June 27, 1844, Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum were murdered. Joseph’s body was laid to rest, but his testimony continues to reverberate around the world and in my soul:
“I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it.”
“I never told you I was perfect; but there is no error in the revelations which I have taught.”
“The fundamental principles of our religion are the testimony of the Apostles and Prophets, concerning Jesus Christ, that He died, was buried, and rose again the third day, and ascended into heaven; and all other things which pertain to our religion are only appendages to it.”
What was said of John the Baptist might also be said of Joseph Smith: “There was a man sent from God, whose name was [Joseph]. … He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light,” “that all men through him might believe.”
I believe. I believe and am sure that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. I testify that the living God is our loving Father. I know this because the voice of the Lord has spoken it to me, and so has the voice of His servants, the apostles and prophets, including and beginning with Joseph Smith.
I testify that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God, a witness and servant of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was “blessed to open the last dispensation,” and we are blessed that he did.
The Lord commanded Oliver and all of us, “Stand by my servant Joseph, faithfully.” I testify that the Lord stands by His servant Joseph and the Restoration wrought through him.
Joseph Smith is now part of that heavenly priesthood of which he spoke. As he promised his friend, he is not far away from us, and on the other side of the veil, he is still working with us, and with a power greatly increased, to roll on this kingdom. With joy and thanksgiving, I raise my voice in “praise to the man who communed with Jehovah.” And above all, praise to Jehovah, who communed with that man! In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2007), 49.


Joseph Smith—History 1:19.


Joseph Smith, History, circa summer 1832, 3, josephsmithpapers.org.


Joseph Smith—History 1:26.


Steven Harper, in Spencer W. McBride, host, The First Vision: A Joseph Smith Papers Podcast, episode 6, “I Had Seen a Vision,” Joseph Smith Papers Project, May 16, 2024, ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See Joseph Smith—History 1:28–29.


Doctrine and Covenants 110:5.


Hebrews 4:16.


Lectures on Faith (1985), 42.


See John 3:17; 8:3–11.


Acts 3:21.


Doctrine and Covenants 130:22.


See Alma 7:11–12.


See Doctrine and Covenants 19:18.


2 Nephi 25:23.


See Mosiah 4:8; Alma 42:13, 23–24.


Mosiah 5:2.


See Doctrine and Covenants 124:39.


See Doctrine and Covenants 109:5; 110:7–8.


See Doctrine and Covenants 43:16; 109:22.


Teachings: Joseph Smith, 514.


Joseph Smith, in Benjamin F. Johnson letter to George S. Gibbs, circa 1903, Church History Library, Salt Lake City.


Joseph Smith—History 1:25.


Teachings: Joseph Smith, 522.


Teachings: Joseph Smith, 49.


John 1:6, 8, 7.


“Praise to the Man,” Hymns, no. 27.


Doctrine and Covenants 6:18.


Hymns, no. 27.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Embrace the Lord’s Gift of Repentance","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Embrace the Lord’s Gift of Repentance

By Elder Jorge M. Alvarado
Of the Seventy

Let us not wait for things to get hard before turning to God. Let us not wait until the end of our mortal lives to truly repent.


I testify of a loving Heavenly Father. In the April 2019 general conference, moments after I was sustained in my new responsibility as a General Authority Seventy, the choir sang a rendition of “I Stand All Amazed” that pierced my heart and soul.


I marvel that he would descend from his throne divine
To rescue a soul so rebellious and proud as mine,
That he should extend his great love unto such as I,
Sufficient to own, to redeem, and to justify.


As I heard those words, I was all amazed. I felt that despite my inadequacies and flaws, the Lord blessed me to know that “in his strength I can do all things.”
The common feeling of inadequacy, weakness, or even unworthiness is something with which many of us sometimes struggle. I still struggle with this; I felt it the day I was called. I have felt it many times, and I still feel it right now speaking to you. However, I have learned that I am not alone with these feelings. In fact, there are many accounts in the scriptures of those who seem to have felt similar feelings. For example, we remember Nephi as a faithful and valiant servant of the Lord. At times, even he struggled with feelings of unworthiness, weakness, and inadequacy.
He said: “Notwithstanding the great goodness of the Lord, in showing me his great and marvelous works, my heart exclaimeth: O wretched man that I am! Yea, my heart sorroweth because of my flesh; my soul grieveth because of mine iniquities.”
The Prophet Joseph Smith spoke of often feeling “condemned,” in his youth, “for [his] weakness and imperfections.” But Joseph’s feelings of inadequacy and worry were part of what led him to ponder, study, learn, and pray. As you may remember, he went to pray in the grove near his home to find truth, peace, and forgiveness. He heard the Lord say: “Joseph, my son, thy sins are forgiven thee. Go thy way, walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments. Behold, I am the Lord of Glory. I was crucified for the world that all those who believe on my name may have eternal life.”
Joseph’s sincere desire to repent and seek the salvation of his soul helped him come to Jesus Christ and receive forgiveness of his sins. This continuous effort opened the door to the continuing Restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
This remarkable experience of the Prophet Joseph Smith illustrates how feelings of weakness and inadequacy can help us recognize our fallen nature. If we are humble, this will help us come to recognize our dependence upon Jesus Christ and stir within our hearts a sincere desire to turn to the Savior and repent of our sins.
My friends, repentance is joy! Sweet repentance is part of a daily process through which, “line upon line, precept upon precept,” the Lord teaches us to live a life centered in His teachings. Like Joseph and Nephi, we can “cry unto [God] for mercy; for he is mighty to save.” He can fulfill any righteous desire or longing and can heal any wound in our lives.
In the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ, you and I can find countless accounts of individuals who learned how to come unto Christ through sincere repentance.
I’d like to share with you an example of the tender mercies of the Lord through an experience that occurred in my beloved home island of Puerto Rico.
It was in my hometown of Ponce that a sister in the Church, Célia Cruz Ayala, decided that she was going to give a Book of Mormon to a friend. She wrapped it and went to deliver this gift, more precious to her than diamonds or rubies, she said. On her way, a thief approached her, grabbed her purse, and ran away with the special gift inside.
When she told this story at church, her friend said, “Who knows? Maybe this was your opportunity to share the gospel!”
Well, a few days later, do you know what happened? Célia received a letter. I hold that letter, which Célia shared with me, in my hand today. It says:
“Mrs. Cruz:
“Forgive me, forgive me. You will never know how sorry I am for attacking you. But because of it, my life has changed and will continue to change.
“That book [the Book of Mormon] has helped me in my life. The dream of that man of God has shaken me. … I am returning your five [dollars,] for I can’t spend them. I want you to know that you seemed to have a radiance about you. That light seemed to stop me [from harming you, so] I ran away instead.
“I want you to know that you will see me again, but when you do, you won’t recognize me, for I will be your brother. … Here, where I live, I have to find the Lord and go to the church you belong to.
“The message you wrote in that book brought tears to my eyes. Since Wednesday night I have not been able to stop reading it. I have prayed and asked God to forgive me [and] I ask you to forgive me. … I thought your wrapped gift was something I could sell. [Instead,] it has made me want to [change] my life. … Forgive me, forgive me, I beg you.
“Your absent friend.”
Brothers and sisters, the light of the Savior can reach us all, no matter our circumstances. “It is not possible for you to sink lower than the infinite light of Christ’s Atonement shines,” said President Jeffrey R. Holland.
As for the unintended recipient of Célia’s gift, the Book of Mormon, this brother went on to witness more of the Lord’s mercy. Although it took time for this brother to forgive himself, he found joy in repentance. What a miracle! One faithful sister, one Book of Mormon, sincere repentance, and the Savior’s power led to the enjoyment of the fulness of blessings of the gospel and sacred covenants in the house of the Lord. Other family members followed and accepted sacred responsibilities in the Lord’s vineyard, including full-time missionary service.
As we come unto Jesus Christ, our path of sincere repentance will eventually lead us to the Savior’s holy temple.
What a righteous motive to strive to be clean—to be worthy of the fulness of the blessings made possible by our Heavenly Father and His Son through sacred temple covenants! Serving regularly in the house of the Lord and striving to keep the sacred covenants we make there will increase both our desire and our ability to experience the change of heart, might, mind, and soul necessary for us to become more like our Savior. President Russell M. Nelson has testified: “Nothing will open the heavens more [than worshipping in the temple]. Nothing!”
My dear friends, do you feel inadequate? Do you feel unworthy? Are you second-guessing yourself? Perhaps you might worry and ask: Do I measure up? Is it too late for me? Why do I keep failing when I am trying my absolute best?
Brothers and sisters, surely we will make mistakes in our lives along the way. But please remember that, as Elder Gerrit W. Gong has taught: “Our Savior’s Atonement is infinite and eternal. Each of us strays and falls short. We may, for a time, lose our way. God lovingly assures us [that] no matter where we are or what we have done, there is no point of no return. He waits ready to embrace us.”
As my dear wife, Cari Lu, has also taught me, we all need to repent, rewind, and reset the time to “zero o’clock” every single day.
Obstacles will come. Let us not wait for things to get hard before turning to God. Let us not wait until the end of our mortal lives to truly repent. Instead, let us now, no matter which part of the covenant path we are on, focus on the redemptive power of Jesus Christ and on Heavenly Father’s desire for us to return to Him.
The Lord’s house, His holy scriptures, His holy prophets and apostles inspire us to strive towards personal holiness through the doctrine of Christ.
And Nephi said: “And now, behold, my beloved brethren, this is the way; and there is none other way nor name given under heaven whereby man [and woman] can be saved in the kingdom of God. And now, behold, this is the doctrine of Christ, and the only and true doctrine of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.”
Our process of “at-one-ment” with God may feel challenging. But you and I can pause, be still, look to the Savior, and seek to find and act on what He would have us change. If we do so with full intent, we will witness His healing. And think of how our posterity will be blessed as we embrace the Lord’s gift of repentance!
The Master Potter, taught my dad, will mold and refine us, which can be difficult. Nonetheless, the Master Healer will also cleanse us. I have experienced and continue to experience that healing power. I testify that it comes through faith in Jesus Christ and daily repentance.


Oh, it is wonderful that he should care for me
Enough to die for me!


I testify of God’s love and of the infinite power of His Son’s Atonement. We can feel it profoundly as we sincerely and wholeheartedly repent.
My friends, I am a witness of the glorious Restoration of the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith and the current divine guidance of the Savior through His prophet and mouthpiece, President Russell M. Nelson. I know Jesus Christ lives and that He is the Master Healer of our souls. I know and I testify that these things are true, in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


“I Stand All Amazed,” Hymns, no. 193.


Alma 26:12.


2 Nephi 4:17; see also verses 18–19.


Joseph Smith—History 1:29.


Joseph Smith, “History, circa Summer 1832,” 3, josephsmithpapers.org; spelling and punctuation standardized.


See Mosiah 4:11–12.


President Russell M. Nelson taught: “When we choose to repent, we choose to change! We allow the Savior to transform us into the best version of ourselves. We choose to grow spiritually and receive joy—the joy of redemption in Him. When we choose to repent, we choose to become more like Jesus Christ!” (“We Can Do Better and Be Better,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2019, 67).


2 Nephi 28:30.


Alma 34:18.


“My brothers and sisters, how precious is the Book of Mormon to you? If you were offered diamonds or rubies or the Book of Mormon, which would you choose? Honestly, which is of greater worth to you?” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Book of Mormon: What Would Your Life Be Like without It?,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2017, 61).


In F. Burton Howard, “Missionary Moments: ‘My Life Has Changed,’” Church News, Jan. 6, 1996, thechurchnews.com; see also Saints: The Story of the Church of Jesus Christ in the Latter Days, vol. 4, Sounded in Every Ear, 1955–2020 (2024), 472–74, 477–79.


Jeffrey R. Holland, “The Laborers in the Vineyard,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2012, 33.


May we stop for one second and think about our posterity? Because of our myopic view, we cannot see it now, but our willingness to turn to the Lord with full purpose of heart—to change, repent, and embrace the gospel of Jesus Christ—can influence generations! Imagine the additional blessings that may blossom from one soul’s humility, meekness, and faith in Jesus Christ under even the most inconvenient of circumstances!


These details were recounted by Sister Célia Cruz in a personal conversation with Elder Jorge M. Alvarado on September 10, 2024.


Russell M. Nelson, “Rejoice in the Gift of Priesthood Keys,” Liahona, May 2024, 122.


When we find ourselves asking questions like these, it is important to remember the words of the Apostle Paul:
“Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? …
“Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us.
“For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
“Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord” (Romans 8:35, 37–39).


Gerrit W. Gong, “Our Campfire of Faith,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 41.


Nephi is a good example of this. He exclaimed:
“Awake, my soul! No longer droop in sin. Rejoice, O my heart, and give place no more for the enemy of my soul. …
“O Lord, wilt thou redeem my soul? Wilt thou deliver me out of the hands of mine enemies? Wilt thou make me that I may shake at the appearance of sin?” (2 Nephi 4:28, 31).


President Dallin H. Oaks taught: “When a person has gone through the [repentance] process … , the Savior does more than cleanse that person from sin. He also gives him or her new strength. That strengthening is essential for us to realize the purpose of the cleansing, which is to return to our Heavenly Father. To be admitted to His presence, we must be more than clean. We must also be changed from a morally weak person who has sinned into a strong person with the spiritual stature to dwell in the presence of God” (“The Atonement and Faith,” Ensign, Apr. 2010, 33–34).


2 Nephi 31:21.


We honor our family and Heavenly Father by embracing repentance and striving to live a good life.


Hymns, no. 193.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"In the Space of Not Many Years","year":"2024","month":"10"}


In the Space of Not Many Years

By Elder David A. Bednar
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

If we are not faithful and obedient, we can transform the God-given blessing of prosperity into a prideful curse that diverts and distracts us.


My beloved brothers and sisters, sitting on the stand today, I have watched this Conference Center fill up three times, for the first time since COVID. You are devoted disciples of Jesus Christ who are eager to learn. I commend you for your faithfulness. And I love you.
Ezra Taft Benson served as the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from November 1985 until May 1994. I was 33 years old when President Benson became the President of the Church and 42 when he passed away. And his teachings and testimony influenced me in profound and powerful ways.
One of the hallmarks of President Benson’s ministry was his focus upon the purpose and importance of the Book of Mormon. He emphasized repeatedly that “the Book of Mormon is the keystone of our religion—the keystone of our testimony, the keystone of our doctrine, and the keystone in the witness of our Lord and Savior.” He also often emphasized teachings and warnings about the sin of pride found in this latter-day testament of Jesus Christ.
A particular teaching by President Benson greatly impacted me and continues to influence my study of the Book of Mormon. He said:
“The Book of Mormon … was written for our day. The Nephites never had the book; neither did the Lamanites of ancient times. It was meant for us. Mormon wrote near the end of the Nephite civilization. Under the inspiration of God, who sees all things from the beginning, [Mormon] abridged centuries of records, choosing the stories, speeches, and events that would be most helpful to us.”
President Benson continued: “Each of the major writers of the Book of Mormon testified that he wrote for future generations. … If they saw our day, and chose those things which would be of greatest worth to us, is not that how we should study the Book of Mormon? We should constantly ask ourselves, ‘Why did the Lord inspire Mormon … to include [this account] in his record? What lesson can I learn from [this admonition] to help me live in this day and age?’”
President Benson’s statements help us to understand that the Book of Mormon is not primarily a historical record that looks to the past. Rather, this volume of scripture looks to the future and contains important principles, warnings, and lessons intended for the circumstances and challenges of our day. Hence, the Book of Mormon is a book about our future and the times in which we do now and will yet live.
I pray for the assistance of the Holy Ghost as we now consider relevant lessons for us today from the book of Helaman in the Book of Mormon.


The Nephites and the Lamanites

The record of Helaman and his sons describes a people who were anticipating the birth of Jesus Christ. The half century recounted in the scriptural record highlights the conversion and righteousness of the Lamanites and the wickedness, apostasy, and abominations of the Nephites.
A series of comparisons and contrasts between the Nephites and Lamanites from this ancient record are most instructive for us today.
“The Lamanites had become, the more part of them, a righteous people, insomuch that their righteousness did exceed that of the Nephites, because of their firmness and their steadiness in the faith.
“[And] there were many of the Nephites who had become hardened and impenitent and grossly wicked, insomuch that they did reject the word of God and all the preaching and prophesying which did come among them.”
“And thus we see that the Nephites did begin to dwindle in unbelief, and grow in wickedness and abominations, while the Lamanites began to grow exceedingly in the knowledge of their God; yea, they did begin to keep his statutes and commandments, and to walk in truth and uprightness before him.
“And thus we see that the Spirit of the Lord began to withdraw from the Nephites, because of the wickedness and the hardness of their hearts.
“And thus we see that the Lord began to pour out his Spirit upon the Lamanites, because of their easiness and willingness to believe in his words.”
Perhaps the most stunning and sobering aspect of this decline into apostasy by the Nephites is the fact that “all these iniquities did come unto them in the space of not many years.”



The Nephites Turned Away from God

How could a once-righteous people become hardened and wicked in such a short period of time? How could people so quickly forget the God who had blessed them so abundantly?
In a powerful and profound way, the negative example of the Nephites is instructive for us today.
“Pride … began to enter … into the hearts of the people who professed to belong to the church of God … because of their exceedingly great riches and their prosperity in the land.”
“[They] set [their] hearts upon the riches and the vain things of this world” “because of that pride which [they] … suffered to enter [into their] hearts, which … lifted [them] up beyond that which is good because of [their] exceedingly great riches!”
Ancient voices from the dust plead with us today to learn this everlasting lesson: prosperity, possessions, and ease constitute a potent mixture that can lead even the righteous to drink the spiritual poison of pride.
Allowing pride to enter into our hearts can cause us to mock that which is sacred; disbelieve in the spirit of prophecy and revelation; trample under our feet the commandments of God; deny the word of God; cast out, mock, and revile against the prophets; and forget the Lord our God and “not desire that the Lord [our] God, who hath created [us], should rule and reign over [us].”
Therefore, if we are not faithful and obedient, we can transform the God-given blessing of prosperity into a prideful curse that diverts and distracts us from eternal truths and vital spiritual priorities. We always must be on guard against a pride-induced and exaggerated sense of self-importance, a misguided evaluation of our own self-sufficiency, and seeking self instead of serving others.
As we pridefully focus upon ourselves, we also are afflicted with spiritual blindness and miss much, most, or perhaps all that is occurring within and around us. We cannot look to and focus upon Jesus Christ as the “mark” if we only see ourselves.
Such spiritual blindness also can cause us to turn out of the way of righteousness, fall away into forbidden paths, and become lost. As we blindly “turn unto [our] own ways” and follow destructive detours, we are inclined to lean upon our own understanding, boast in our own strength, and depend upon our own wisdom.
Samuel the Lamanite succinctly summarized the turning away from God by the Nephites: “Ye have sought all the days of your lives for that which ye could not obtain; and ye have sought for happiness in doing iniquity, which thing is contrary to the nature of that righteousness which is in our great and Eternal Head.”
The prophet Mormon observed, “The more part of the people [remained] in their pride and wickedness, and the lesser part [walked] more circumspectly before God.”



The Lamanites Turned to God

In the Book of Helaman, the increasing righteousness of the Lamanites provides a stark contrast to the rapid spiritual decline of the Nephites.
The Lamanites turned to God and were brought to a knowledge of the truth by believing the teachings in the holy scriptures and of prophets, exercising faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repenting of their sins, and experiencing a mighty change of heart.
“Therefore, as many as have come to this, ye know of yourselves are firm and steadfast in the faith, and in the thing wherewith they have been made free.”
“Ye should behold that the more part of [the Lamanites] are in the path of their duty, and they do walk circumspectly before God, and they do observe to keep his commandments and his statutes and his judgments. …
“… They are striving with unwearied diligence that they may bring the remainder of their brethren to the knowledge of the truth.”
As a consequence, the “righteousness [of the Lamanites] did exceed that of the Nephites, because of their firmness and their steadiness in the faith.”



A Warning and a Promise

Moroni declared: “Behold, the Lord hath shown unto me great and marvelous things concerning that which must shortly come, at that day when these things shall come forth among you.
“Behold, I speak unto you as if ye were present, and yet ye are not. But behold, Jesus Christ hath shown you unto me, and I know your doing.”
Please remember that the Book of Mormon looks to the future and contains important principles, warnings, and lessons intended for me and you in the circumstances and challenges of our present day.
Apostasy can occur at two basic levels—institutional and individual. At the institutional level, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will not be lost through apostasy or taken from the earth.
The Prophet Joseph Smith proclaimed: “The Standard of Truth has been erected; no unhallowed hand can stop the work from progressing … ; the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly, and independent, till it has penetrated every continent, visited every clime, swept every country, and sounded in every ear, till the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done.”
At the individual level, each of us must “beware of pride, lest [we] become as the Nephites of old.”
May I suggest that if you or I believe we are sufficiently strong and stalwart to avoid the arrogance of pride, then perhaps we already are suffering from this deadly spiritual disease. Simply stated, if you or I do not believe we could be afflicted with and by pride, then we are vulnerable and in spiritual danger. In the space of not many days, weeks, months, or years, we might forfeit our spiritual birthright for far less than a mess of pottage.
If, however, you or I believe we could be afflicted with and by pride, then we consistently will do the small and simple things that will protect and help us become “as a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full of love, willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon [us].” “Blessed are they who humble themselves without being compelled to be humble.”
As we follow President Benson’s counsel and ask ourselves why the Lord inspired Mormon to include in his abridgment of the book of Helaman the accounts, admonitions, and warnings that he did, I promise we will discern the applicability of these teachings to the specific conditions of our individual lives and families today. As we study and ponder this inspired record, we will be blessed with eyes to see, ears to hear, minds to comprehend, and hearts to understand the lessons we should learn to “beware of pride, lest [we should] enter into temptation.”
I joyfully witness that God the Eternal Father is our Father. Jesus Christ is His Only Begotten and Beloved Son. He is our Savior. And I testify that as we walk in the meekness of the Lord’s Spirit, we will avoid and overcome pride and have peace in Him. I so witness in the sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


Ezra Taft Benson, “The Book of Mormon—Keystone of Our Religion,” Ensign, Nov. 1986, 6.


Ezra Taft Benson, “The Book of Mormon—Keystone of Our Religion,” 6.


Helaman 6:1–2.


Helaman 6:34–36.


Helaman 6:32.


Helaman 3:33, 36.


Helaman 7:21.


Helaman 7:26.


See Helaman 12:2.


See Helaman 4:12.


See Helaman 4:23.


See Helaman 6:31.


See Helaman 8:13.


See Helaman 13:24.


See Helaman 10:15.


See Helaman 12:2.


Helaman 12:6.


See Jacob 4:14.


See Helaman 6:31.


See 1 Nephi 8:28.


Helaman 6:31.


See Proverbs 3:5.


See Helaman 4:13.


See Helaman 16:15.


Helaman 13:38.


Helaman 16:10.


See Helaman 15:7.


Helaman 15:8.


Helaman 15:5–6.


Helaman 6:1.


Mormon 8:34–35.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2007), 142.


Doctrine and Covenants 38:39.


See Genesis 25:29–34.


See 1 Nephi 16:29; Alma 37:6–7; Doctrine and Covenants 64:32–33.


Mosiah 3:19.


Alma 32:16.


See Mosiah 2:9.


Doctrine and Covenants 23:1.


See Doctrine and Covenants 19:23.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"“I Am He”","year":"2024","month":"10"}


“I Am He”

By President Jeffrey R. Holland
Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Christ’s charity—evident in complete loyalty to divine will—persisted and continues to persist.


It is the Sabbath day, and we have gathered to speak of Christ and Him crucified. I know that my Redeemer lives.
Consider this scene from the last week of Jesus’s mortal life. A multitude had gathered, including Roman soldiers armed with staves and strapped with swords. Led by officers from the chief priests who had torches in hand, this earnest company was not off to conquer a city. Tonight they were looking for only one man, a man not known to carry a weapon, receive military training, or engage in physical combat at any time in His entire life.
As the soldiers approached, Jesus, in an effort to protect His disciples, stepped forth and said, “Whom seek ye?” They replied, “Jesus of Nazareth.” Jesus said, “I am he. … As soon … as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground.”
To me, that is one of the most stirring lines in all of scripture. Among other things, it tells me straightforwardly that just being in the presence of the Son of God—the great Jehovah of the Old Testament and Good Shepherd of the New, who bears no weapons of any kind—that just hearing the voice of this Refuge from the Storm, this Prince of Peace, is enough to send antagonists stumbling into retreat, piling them in a jumble, making the whole group wish they had been assigned kitchen duty that night.
Just a few days earlier, when He had entered the city triumphantly, “all the city was moved,” the scripture says, asking, “Who is this?” I can only imagine that “Who is this?” is the question those muddled soldiers were now asking!
The answer to that question could not have been in His looks, for Isaiah had prophesied some seven centuries earlier that “he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.” It certainly wasn’t in His polished wardrobe or His great personal wealth, of which He had neither. It could not be from any professional training in the local synagogues because we have no evidence that He ever studied at any of them, though even in His youth He could confound superbly prepared scribes and lawyers, astonishing them with His doctrine “as one having authority.”
From that teaching in the temple to His triumphant entry into Jerusalem and this final, unjustifiable arrest, Jesus was routinely placed in difficult, often devious situations in which He was always triumphant—victories for which we have no explanation except divine DNA.
Yet down through history many have simplified, even trivialized our image of Him and His witness of who He was. They have reduced His righteousness to mere prudishness, His justice to mere anger, His mercy to mere permissiveness. We must not be guilty of such simplistic versions of Him that conveniently ignore teachings we find uncomfortable. This “dumbing down” has been true even regarding His ultimate defining virtue, His love.
During His mortal mission, Jesus taught that there were two great commandments. They have been taught in this conference and will forever be taught: “Love the Lord thy God [and] love thy neighbour as thyself.” If we are to follow the Savior faithfully in these two crucial and inextricably linked rules, we ought to hold firmly to what He actually said. And what He actually said was, “If ye love me, keep my commandments.” On that same evening, He said we were to “love one another; as I have loved you.”
In those scriptures, those qualifying phrases defining true, Christlike love—sometimes referred to as charity—are absolutely essential.
What do they define? How did Jesus love?
First, He loved with “all [of His] heart, might, mind and strength,” giving Him the ability to heal the deepest pain and declare the hardest reality. In short, He is one who could administer grace and insist on truth at the same time. As Lehi said in his blessing to his son Jacob, “Redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for he is full of grace and truth.” His love allows an encouraging embrace when it is needed and a bitter cup when it has to be swallowed. So we try to love—with all of our heart, might, mind, and strength—because that is the way He loves us.
The second characteristic of Jesus’s divine charity was His obedience to every word that proceeded from God’s mouth, always aligning His will and behavior with that of His Heavenly Father.
When He arrived on the Western Hemisphere following His Resurrection, Christ said to the Nephites: “Behold, I am Jesus Christ. … I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, … in the which I have suffered the will of the Father … from the beginning.”
Of the myriad ways He could have introduced Himself, Jesus did so by declaring His obedience to the will of the Father—never mind that not long before in His hour of greatest need, this Only Begotten Son of God had felt totally abandoned by His Father. Christ’s charity—evident in complete loyalty to divine will—persisted and continues to persist, not just through the easy and comfortable days but especially through the darkest and most difficult ones.
Jesus was “a man of sorrows,” the scriptures say. He experienced sadness, fatigue, disappointment, and excruciating loneliness. In these and in all times, Jesus’s love faileth not, and neither does His Father’s. With such mature love—the kind that exemplifies, empowers, and imparts—ours will not fail either.
So, if sometimes the harder you try, the more difficult it seems to get; if, just as you try to work on your limitations and your shortcomings, you find someone or something determined to challenge your faith; if, as you labor devotedly, you still feel moments of fear wash over you, remember that it has been so for some of the most faithful and marvelous people in every era of time. Also remember that there is a force in the universe determined to oppose every good thing you try to do.
So, through abundance as well as poverty, through private acclaim as well as public criticism, through the divine elements of the Restoration as well as the human foibles that will inevitably be part of it, we stay the course with the true Church of Christ. Why? Because as with our Redeemer, we signed on for the whole term—not ending with the first short introductory quiz but through to the final exam. The joy in this is that the Headmaster gave us all open-book answers before the course began. Furthermore, we have a host of tutors who remind us of these answers at regular stops along the way. But of course, none of this works if we keep cutting class.
“Whom seek ye?” With all our hearts we answer, “Jesus of Nazareth.” When He says, “I am he,” we bow our knee and confess with our tongue that He is the living Christ, that He alone atoned for our sins, that He was carrying us even when we thought He had abandoned us. When we stand before Him and see the wounds in His hands and feet, we will begin to comprehend what it meant for Him to bear our sins and be acquainted with grief, to be completely obedient to the will of His Father—all out of pure love for us. To introduce others to faith, repentance, baptism, the gift of the Holy Ghost, and receiving our blessings in the house of the Lord—these are the fundamental “principles and ordinances” that ultimately reveal our love of God and neighbor and joyfully characterize the true Church of Christ.
Brothers and sisters, I testify that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the vehicle God has provided for our exaltation. The gospel it teaches is true, and the priesthood legitimizing it is not derivative. I testify that Russell M. Nelson is a prophet of our God, as His predecessors were and as His successors will be. And one day that prophetic guidance will lead a generation to see our Messenger of Salvation descend like “lightning … out of the east,” and we will exclaim, “Jesus of Nazareth.” With arms forever outstretched and love unfeigned, He will reply, “I am he.” I so promise with the apostolic power and authority of His holy name, even Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Matthew 26:47–57; Mark 14:43–46.


John 18:4–6.


Matthew 21:10.


Isaiah 53:2.


Matthew 7:29; see also John 7:15.


Matthew 22:37, 39.


John 14:15.


John 13:34.


Doctrine and Covenants 4:2.


See Joseph Smith Translation, John 1:4, 14; Moses 1:6.


2 Nephi 2:6.


See Doctrine and Covenants 84:44.


See Mosiah 15:7; 3 Nephi 27:13–15. And Jesus reminds us to do the same in Matthew 7:21: “Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven.”


3 Nephi 11:10–11.


See Matthew 27:46.


Isaiah 53:3.


See Moroni 7:12.


John 18:4–6.


Articles of Faith 1:4.


Matthew 24:27.


John 18:5.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Seeking Answers to Spiritual Questions","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Seeking Answers to Spiritual Questions

By Sister Tracy Y. Browning
Second Counselor in the Primary General Presidency

Our sincere gospel questions can provide Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ with opportunities to help us grow.


I know this may come as a surprise, but I’m old enough to remember when we were taught in school that there were nine planets in our solar system. One of those planets, Pluto, was given its name by 11-year-old Venetia Burney of Oxford, England, after its discovery in 1930. And up until 1992, Pluto was believed to be the most distant object in our solar system. During this time, it was common to find childhood papier mâché models of our planetary neighborhood in classrooms and science fairs, each one illustrating Pluto’s position on the known border. Many scientists believed that beyond that edge, the outer solar system consisted of empty space.
However, a lingering question remained within the scientific community regarding the origin of a particular type of comet that astronomers regularly tracked. And that question persisted for decades before the discovery of another distant region of our solar system. With the limited knowledge they had, scientists used those intervening decades to produce significant technological advances that allowed for further study and exploration. Their eventual breakthrough reconfigured our planetary zone and resulted in Pluto being rehomed to this new region of space and our solar system consisting of eight planets.
One leading planetary scientist and principal investigator for the New Horizons space mission tasked with exploring Pluto up close had this to say about this experience: “We thought we understood the geography of our solar system. We didn’t. We thought we understood the population of planets in our solar system. And we were wrong.”
What is striking to me about this period of space exploration history are some parallels and key distinctions between the metaphorical pursuit of expanding scientific horizons and the journey that we, as children of God, undertake to seek answers to our spiritual questions. Specifically, how we can respond to the limits of our spiritual understanding and prepare ourselves for the next stage of personal growth—and where we can turn for help.


Line upon Line

Asking questions and searching for meaning are a natural and normal part of our mortal experience. At times, not readily having complete answers can bring us to the edge of our understanding, and those limitations can feel frustrating or overwhelming. Wondrously, Heavenly Father’s plan of happiness for all of us is designed to help us progress despite our limitations and accomplish what we cannot accomplish on our own, even without a complete knowledge of all things. God’s plan is merciful toward the limitations of our humanity; provides us with our Savior, Jesus Christ, to be our Good Shepherd; and inspires us to use our agency to choose Him.
Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf has taught that “asking questions isn’t a sign of weakness,” but rather “it’s a precursor of growth.” Speaking directly to our personal effort as seekers of truth, our prophet, President Russell M. Nelson, has taught that we must have “a deep desire” and “ask with a sincere heart [and] real intent, having faith in [Jesus] Christ.” He has further taught that “‘real intent’ means that one really intends to follow the divine direction given.”
Our personal effort to grow in wisdom may lead us to examine our questions, complex or otherwise, through the lens of cause and effect, seeking out and recognizing patterns and then forming narratives to give shape to our understanding and fill in perceived gaps in knowledge. When we consider our pursuit of spiritual knowledge, however, these thoughtful processes may be helpful at times but on their own can be incomplete as we look to discern things pertaining to Heavenly Father and our Savior, Jesus Christ, Their gospel, Their Church, and Their plan for all of us.
God the Father and His Son’s way of imparting Their wisdom to us prioritizes inviting the power of the Holy Ghost to be our personal teacher as we center Jesus Christ in our lives and in our faithful seeking for Their answers and Their meaning. They invite us to discover truth through devoted time spent studying holy scripture and to seek for latter-day revealed truth for our day and our time, imparted by modern-day prophets and apostles. They entreat us to spend regular, worshipful time in the house of the Lord and to take to our knees in prayer “to access information from heaven.” Jesus’s promise to those present to hear His Sermon on the Mount is as true for us in our day as it was during His earthly ministry: “Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.” Our Savior assures that “your Father which is in heaven give[s] good things to them that ask him.”
The Lord’s method of teaching is “line upon line, precept upon precept.” We may be required to “wait upon the Lord” in the space between our current line of understanding and the next yet to be delivered. This sacred space can be a place where our greatest spiritual conditioning can occur—the site where we can “bear with patience” our earnest seeking and renew our strength to continue to keep the sacred promises we have made to God through covenant.
Our covenant relationship with Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ signals our prevailing citizenship in God’s kingdom. And our residency therein requires aligning our life to divine principles and putting in the effort to grow spiritually.



Obedience

One key principle taught throughout the Book of Mormon is when God’s children choose to demonstrate obedience and keep their covenants, they receive continual spiritual guidance and direction. The Lord has told us that through our obedience and diligence, we may gain knowledge and intelligence. God’s laws and commandments are not designed to be an obstacle in our life but a powerful gateway to personal revelation and spiritual education. President Nelson has taught the crucial truth that “revelation from God is always compatible with His eternal law” and further that “it never contradicts His doctrine.” Your willing obedience to God’s commands, despite not having a complete knowledge of His reasons, places you in the company of His prophets. Moses 5 teaches us about a particular interaction between Adam and an angel of the Lord.
After the Lord gave Adam and Eve “commandments, that they should worship the Lord their God, and should offer the firstlings of their flocks, for an offering unto the Lord,” the scriptures say that “Adam was obedient unto the commandments of the Lord.” We go on to read that “after many days an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me.”
Adam’s obedience preceded his understanding and prepared him to receive the sacred knowledge that he was participating in a sacred symbol of the Atonement of Jesus Christ. Our humble obedience will, likewise, pave the way for our spiritual discernment of God’s ways and His divine purpose for each of us. Reaching to elevate our obedience brings us closer to our Savior, Jesus Christ, because obedience to His laws and commandments is effectually reaching out to Him.
Additionally, our fidelity to the knowledge and wisdom we have already inherited through our faithful adherence to gospel principles and sacred covenants is crucial preparation for our readiness to receive and be stewards of communications from the Holy Spirit.
Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ are the source of all truth and share Their wisdom liberally. Also, understanding that we do not possess any personal knowledge independent of God can help us know who to turn to and where to place our primary trust.



Profound Trust

The Old Testament account of Naaman, the military leader who was healed of leprosy by the prophet Elisha, is a particular favorite of mine. The story illustrates how the firm faith of a “little maid” altered the course of one man’s life and, for all believers, revealed the reach of God’s mercy to those who place their trust in Him and His prophet. Though nameless, this young girl also helped to push our understanding forward. And Naaman’s belief on her testimony inspired him to take his petition for healing to God’s chosen servant.
Naaman’s response to the prophet Elisha’s instructions to wash in the river Jordan was at first skeptical and indignant. But an invitation for him to be obedient to the prophet’s counsel made way for his healing and his dramatic understanding that God was real.
We may find that some of our spiritual petitions have reasonably discernible answers and may not create significant discomfort for us. Or, like Naaman, we may find that other needs are more challenging and may create difficult and complex feelings within us. Or, similar to the description of the astronomers’ early conclusions about our solar system, in our search for spiritual truth, we may reach less accurate interpretations if we rely exclusively on our own limited understanding, a sorrowful and unintended consequence of which may lead us away from the covenant path. And moreover, some questions may persist until God, who “has all power” and “all wisdom, and all understanding,” who “comprehendeth all things” in His mercy, provides enlightenment through our belief on His name.
One significant caution from Naaman’s account is that resisting obedience to God’s laws and commandments may prolong or delay our growth. We are blessed to have Jesus Christ as our Master Healer. Our obedience to God’s laws and commandments can open the way for our Savior to provide the understanding and healing He knows we need, according to His prescribed treatment plan for us.
Elder Richard G. Scott taught that “this life is an experience in profound trust—trust in Jesus Christ, trust in His teachings, trust in our capacity as led by the Holy Spirit to obey those teachings for happiness now and for a purposeful, supremely happy eternal existence. To trust means to obey willingly without knowing the end from the beginning (see Prov. 3:5–7). To produce fruit, your trust in the Lord must be more powerful and enduring than your confidence in your own personal feelings and experience.”
Elder Scott continues: “To exercise faith is to trust that the Lord knows what He is doing with you and that He can accomplish it for your eternal good even though you cannot understand how He can possibly do it.”



Closing Testimony

Dear friends, I testify that our sincere gospel questions can provide Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ with opportunities to help us grow. My personal effort to seek answers from the Lord to my own spiritual questions—past and present—has allowed me to use the space between the lines of my understanding and God’s to practice obedience to Him and fidelity to the spiritual knowledge that I currently possess.
I testify that placing your trust in Heavenly Father and in His prophets, whom He has sent, will help you to spiritually elevate and push you forward toward God’s expanded horizon. Your vantage will change because you will change. God knows that the higher you are, the farther you can see. Our Savior invites you to make that climb. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See “Pluto Facts,” science.nasa.gov.


See “Kuiper Belt: In Depth,” science.nasa.gov.


See “Kuiper Belt: In Depth,” science.nasa.gov.


Alan Stern, in “Expanding the Horizons of Knowledge,” APPEL News, Apr. 12, 2016, appel.nasa.gov.


Dieter F. Uchtdorf, “The Reflection in the Water” (Church Educational System fireside for young adults, Nov. 1, 2009), CESdevotionals.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


Russell M. Nelson, “Ask, Seek, Knock,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2009, 81.


Russell M. Nelson, “Ask, Seek, Knock,” 81.


Matthew 7:7.


Matthew 7:11.


2 Nephi 28:30.


Isaiah 40:31.


Alma 26:27.


See Doctrine and Covenants 130:18–19.


Russell M. Nelson, “Ask, Seek, Knock,” 83.


Moses 5:5–6; emphasis added.


See Doctrine and Covenants 93:21–28.


See James 1:5.


See Mosiah 4:9.


See 2 Kings 5:1–15.


Alma 26:35.


Richard G. Scott, “Trust in the Lord,” Ensign, Nov. 1995, 17.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Mortality Works!","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Mortality Works!

By Elder Brook P. Hales
Of the Seventy

Despite the challenges we all face, our loving Heavenly Father has designed the plan of happiness such that we are not destined to fail.


For several years I was assigned to home teach an older sister in my ward. She did not have an easy life. She had various health problems and experienced a lifetime of pain due to a childhood accident on the playground. Divorced at age 32 with four young children to raise and provide for, she remarried at age 50. Her second husband passed away when she was 66, and this sister lived an additional 26 years as a widow.
Despite her lifelong challenges, she was faithful to her covenants to the end. This sister was an avid genealogist, a temple attender, and a collector and writer of family histories. Though she had many difficult trials, and without question she felt at times sadness and loneliness, she had a cheerful countenance and a gracious and pleasant personality.
Nine months after her passing, one of her sons had a remarkable experience in the temple. He learned by the power of the Holy Ghost that his mother had a message for him. She communicated with him, but not by vision or audible words. The following unmistakable message came into the son’s mind from his mother: “I want you to know that mortality works, and I want you to know that I now understand why everything happened [in my life] the way it did—and it is all OK.”
This message is all the more remarkable when one considers her situation and the difficulties this sister endured and overcame.
Brothers and sisters, mortality works! It is designed to work! Despite the challenges, heartaches, and difficulties we all face, our loving, wise, and perfect Heavenly Father has designed the plan of happiness such that we are not destined to fail. His plan provides a way for us to rise above our mortal failures. The Lord has said, “This is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.”
Nonetheless, if we are to be the beneficiaries of the Lord’s “work and … glory,” even “immortality and eternal life,” we must expect to be schooled and taught and to pass through the refiner’s fire—sometimes to our utter limits. To completely avoid the problems, challenges, and difficulties of this world would be to sidestep the process that is truly necessary for mortality to work.
And so we should not be surprised when hard times come upon us. We will encounter situations that try us and people who enable us to practice true charity and patience. But we need to bear up under our difficulties and remember, as the Lord said:
“And whoso layeth down his life in my cause, for my name’s sake, shall find it again, even life eternal.
“Therefore, be not afraid of your enemies [or your problems, challenges, or the tests of this life], for I have decreed … , saith the Lord, that I will prove you in all things, whether you will abide in my covenant … that you may be found worthy.”
When we feel distraught or anxious about our problems or feel that we might be receiving more than our fair share of life’s difficulties, we can remember what the Lord said to the children of Israel:
“And thou shalt remember all the way[s] which the Lord thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness, to humble thee, and to prove thee, to know what [is] in thine heart, whether thou [would] keep his commandments, or no.”
As Lehi taught his son Jacob:
“Thou hast suffered afflictions and much sorrow. … Nevertheless, … [God] shall consecrate thine afflictions for thy gain. … Wherefore, I know that thou art redeemed, because of the righteousness of thy Redeemer.”
Because this life is a testing ground and “dark clouds of trouble hang o’er us and threaten our peace to destroy,” it is helpful to remember this counsel and promise found in Mosiah 23 relating to life’s challenges: “Nevertheless—whosoever putteth his trust in [the Lord] the same shall be lifted up at the last day.”
As a youth, I personally experienced great emotional pain and shame that came as the result of the unrighteous actions of another, which for many years affected my self-worth and my sense of worthiness before the Lord. Nevertheless, I bear personal witness that the Lord can strengthen us and bear us up in whatever difficulties we are called upon to experience during our sojourn in this vale of tears.
We are familiar with Paul’s experience:
“And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations [I have received], there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure.
“For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me.
“And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.”
We don’t know what Paul’s “thorn in the flesh” was. He chose not to describe whether it was a physical ailment, a mental or emotional infirmity, or a temptation. But we don’t need to know that detail to know that he struggled and pleaded with the Lord for help and that, ultimately, the Lord’s strength and power are what helped him through it.
Like it was for Paul, it was through the Lord’s help that I was eventually strengthened emotionally and spiritually and finally recognized after many years that I have always been a person of worth and worthy of the blessings of the gospel. The Savior helped me to overcome my feelings of unworthiness and to extend sincere forgiveness to the offender. I finally understood that the Savior’s Atonement was a personal gift for me and that my Heavenly Father and His Son love me perfectly. Because of the Savior’s Atonement, mortality works.
While I was eventually blessed to recognize how the Savior rescued me and stood by me through those experiences, I clearly understand that the unfortunate situation of my teenage years was my personal journey and experience, the resolution of which and eventual outcome cannot be projected onto those who have suffered and continue to suffer from the unrighteous behavior of others.
I recognize that life’s experiences—good and bad—can teach us important lessons. I now know and bear testimony that mortality works! I hope that as a result of the sum of my life’s experiences—good and bad—I have compassion for innocent victims of another’s actions and empathy for the downtrodden.
I sincerely hope that as a result of my life’s experiences—good and bad—I am kinder to others, treat others as the Savior would, and have greater understanding for the sinner and that I have complete integrity. As we come to rely on the Savior’s grace and keep our covenants, we can serve as examples of the far-reaching effects of the Savior’s Atonement.
I share a final example that mortality works.



Elder Hales’s aunt, Lois VandenBosch, and his mother, Klea VandenBosch.


My mother did not have an easy journey through mortality. She received no accolades or worldly honors and did not have educational opportunities beyond high school. She contracted polio as a child, resulting in a lifetime of pain and discomfort in her left leg. As an adult, she experienced many difficult and challenging physical and financial circumstances but was faithful to her covenants and loved the Lord.
When my mother was 55, my next older sister passed away, leaving an eight-month-old baby daughter, my niece, motherless. For various reasons, Mom ended up largely raising my niece for the next 17 years, often under very trying circumstances. Yet, notwithstanding these experiences, she happily and willingly served her family, neighbors, and ward members and served as an ordinance worker in the temple for many years. During the last several years of her life, Mom suffered from a form of dementia, was often confused, and was confined to a nursing facility. Regrettably, she was alone when she passed away unexpectedly.
Several months after her passing, I had a dream I have never forgotten. In my dream, I was sitting in my office at the Church Administration Building. Mom entered the office. I knew she had come from the spirit world. I will always remember the feelings I had. She did not say anything, but she radiated a spiritual beauty that I had never before experienced and which I have difficulty describing.
Her countenance and being were truly stunning! I remember saying to her, “Mother, you are so beautiful!,” referencing her spiritual power and beauty. She acknowledged me—again without speaking. I felt her love for me, and I knew then that she is happy and healed from her worldly cares and challenges and eagerly awaits “a glorious resurrection.” I know that for Mom, mortality worked—and that it works for us too.
God’s work and glory is to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. The experiences of mortality are part of the journey that allows us to grow and progress toward that immortality and eternal life. We were not sent here to fail but to succeed in God’s plan for us.
As King Benjamin taught: “And moreover, I would desire that ye should consider on the blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments of God. For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end they are received into heaven, that thereby they may dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness.” In other words, mortality works!
I testify that as we receive the ordinances of the gospel, enter into covenants with God and then keep those covenants, repent, serve others, and endure to the end, we too can have the assurance and complete trust in the Lord that mortality works! I testify of Jesus Christ and that our glorious future with our Heavenly Father is made possible by the grace and Atonement of the Savior. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Shared with permission. This experience accords with the Lord’s teaching that death “shall be sweet unto” the righteous (Doctrine and Covenants 42:46). The Prophet Joseph Smith explained, “The spirits of the just are exalted to a greater and more glorious work … [in] the world of spirits” (Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith [2007], 179). He further taught, “They are not far from us, and know and understand our thoughts, feelings, and motions” (in Discourse, Oct. 9, 1843, as reported by Times and Seasons, 331, josephsmithpapers.org).


Moses 1:39.


Doctrine and Covenants 98:13–14.


Deuteronomy 8:2.


2 Nephi 2:1–3.


“We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet,” Hymns, no. 19.


Mosiah 23:22.


2 Corinthians 12:7–9.


Elder Richard G. Scott said, “I testify that I know victims of serious abuse who have successfully made the difficult journey to full healing through the power of the Atonement” (“To Heal the Shattering Consequences of Abuse,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2008, 40).


Doctrine and Covenants 138:14.


See Moses 1:39.


Mosiah 2:41.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Seek Him with All Your Heart","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Seek Him with All Your Heart

By Bishop L. Todd Budge
Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric

If Jesus Christ sought quiet time to commune with God and to be strengthened by Him, it would be wise for us to do the same.


Several years ago, my wife and I served as mission leaders in Tokyo, Japan. During a visit to our mission by then-Elder Russell M. Nelson, one of the missionaries asked him how best to respond when a person tells them that they are too busy to listen to them. With little hesitation, Elder Nelson said, “I would ask if they were too busy to eat lunch that day and then teach them that they have both a body and a spirit, and just as their body will die if not nourished, so will their spirit if not nourished by the good word of God.”
It is interesting to note that the Japanese word for “busy,” isogashii, is made up of a character with two symbols (忙). The one on the left means “heart” or “spirit,” and the one on the right means “death”—suggesting perhaps, as President Nelson taught, that being too busy to nourish our spirits can lead us to die spiritually.
The Lord knew—in this fast-paced world full of distractions and in commotion—that making quality time for Him would be one of the major challenges of our day. Speaking through the prophet Isaiah, He provided these words of counsel and caution, which can be likened unto the tumultuous days in which we live:
“In returning and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence shall be your strength: and ye would not.
“But ye said, No; for we will flee upon horses; therefore shall ye flee: and, We will ride upon the swift; therefore shall they that pursue you be swift.”
In other words, even though our salvation depends on returning to Him often and resting from the cares of the world, we do not. And even though our confidence will come from a strength developed in quiet times sitting with the Lord in meditation and reflection, we do not. Why not? Because we say, “No, we are busy with other things”—fleeing upon our horses, so to speak. Therefore, we will get further and further away from God; we will insist on going faster and faster; and the faster we go, the swifter Satan will follow in pursuit.
Perhaps this is why President Nelson has repeatedly pled with us to make time for the Lord in our lives—“each and every day.” He reminds us that “quiet time is sacred time—time that will facilitate personal revelation and instill peace.” But to hear the still voice of the Lord, he counseled, “you too must be still.”
Being still, however, requires more than just making time for the Lord—it requires letting go of our doubtful and fearful thoughts and focusing our hearts and minds on Him. Elder David A. Bednar taught, “The Lord’s admonition to ‘be still’ entails much more than simply not talking or not moving.” To be still, he suggested, “may be a way of reminding us to focus upon the Savior unfailingly.”
Being still is an act of faith and requires effort. Lectures on Faith states, “When a man works by faith he works by mental exertion.” President Nelson declared: “Our focus must be riveted on the Savior and His gospel. It is mentally rigorous to strive to look unto Him in every thought. But when we do, our doubts and fears flee.” Speaking of this need to focus our minds, President David O. McKay said: “I think we pay too little attention to the value of meditation, a principle of devotion. … Meditation is one of the … most sacred doors through which we pass into the presence of the Lord.”
There is a word in Japanese, mui, that, for me, captures this more faith-filled, contemplative sense of what it means to be still. It is comprised of two characters (無為). The one on the left means “nothing” or “nothingness,” and the one on the right means “to do.” Together they mean “non-doing.” Taken literally, the word could be misinterpreted to mean “to do nothing” in the same way “to be still” can be misinterpreted as “not talking or moving.” However, like the phrase “to be still,” it has a higher meaning; for me it is a reminder to slow down and to live with greater spiritual awareness.
While serving in the Asia North Area Presidency with Elder Takashi Wada, I learned that his wife, Sister Naomi Wada, is an accomplished Japanese calligrapher. I asked Sister Wada if she would draw for me the Japanese characters for the word mui. I wanted to hang the calligraphy on my wall as a reminder to be still and to focus on the Savior. I was surprised when she did not readily agree to this seemingly simple request.
The next day, knowing that I had likely misunderstood her hesitance, Elder Wada explained that writing those characters would require a significant effort. She would need to ponder and meditate on the concept and the characters until she understood the meaning deeply in her soul and could give expression to these heartfelt impressions with each stroke of her brush. I was embarrassed that I had so casually asked her to do something so demanding. I asked him to convey my apologies to her for my ignorance and to let her know that I was withdrawing my request.

You can imagine my surprise and gratitude when upon my leaving Japan, Sister Wada, unsolicited, gifted to me this beautiful piece of calligraphy featuring the Japanese characters for the word mui. It now hangs prominently on the wall of my office, reminding me to be still and to seek the Lord every day with all my heart, might, mind, and strength. She had captured, in this selfless act, the meaning of mui, or stillness, better than any words could. Rather than mindlessly and dutifully drawing the characters, she approached her calligraphy with full purpose of heart and real intent.
Likewise, God desires that we approach our time with Him with the same kind of heartfelt devotion. When we do so, our worship becomes an expression of our love for Him.
He yearns for us to commune with Him. On one occasion, after I gave the invocation in a meeting with the First Presidency, President Nelson turned to me and said, “While you were praying, I thought how much God must appreciate when we take time from our busy schedules to acknowledge Him.” It was a simple yet powerful reminder of how much it must mean to Heavenly Father when we pause to commune with Him.
As much as He desires our attention, He will not force us to come to Him. To the Nephites, the resurrected Lord said, “How oft would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens, and ye would not.” He followed that with this hopeful invitation that also applies to us today: “How oft will I gather you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, if ye will repent and return unto me with full purpose of heart.”
The gospel of Jesus Christ gives us opportunities to return to Him often. These opportunities include daily prayers, scripture study, the sacrament ordinance, the Sabbath day, and temple worship. What if we were to take these sacred opportunities off our to-do lists and put them on our “non-doing” lists—meaning to approach them with the same mindfulness and focus with which Sister Wada approaches her calligraphy?
You may be thinking, “I do not have time for that.” I have often felt the same. But let me suggest that what may be needed is not necessarily more time but more awareness of and focus on God during the times we already set aside for Him.
For example, when praying, what if we were to spend less time talking and more time just being with God; and when we were to speak, to give more heartfelt and specific expressions of gratitude and love?
President Nelson has counseled that we not just read the scriptures but savor them. What difference would it make if we were to do less reading and more savoring?
What if we were to do more to prepare our minds to partake of the sacrament and joyfully pondered the blessings of the Atonement of Jesus Christ during this sacred ordinance?
On the Sabbath, which in Hebrew means “rest,” what if we were to rest from other cares and to take time to sit quietly with the Lord to pay our devotions unto Him?
During our temple worship, what if we were to make a more disciplined effort to pay attention or lingered a little longer in the celestial room in quiet reflection?
When our focus is less on doing and more on strengthening our covenant connection with Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ, I testify that each of these sacred moments will be enriched, and we will receive the guidance needed in our personal lives. We, like Martha in the account in Luke, are often “careful and troubled about many things.” However, as we commune with the Lord each day, He will help us to know that which is most needful.
Even the Savior took time from His ministry to be still. The scriptures are replete with examples of the Lord retreating to a solitary place—a mountain, the wilderness, a desert place, or going “a little way off”—to pray to the Father. If Jesus Christ sought quiet time to commune with God and to be strengthened by Him, it would be wise for us to do the same.
As we concentrate our hearts and minds on Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ and listen to the still, small voice of the Holy Ghost, we will have greater clarity about what is most needful, develop deeper compassion, and find rest and strength in Him. Paradoxically, helping God hasten His work of salvation and exaltation may require that we slow down. Being always in motion may be adding to the commotion in our lives and robbing us of the peace we seek.
I testify that as we return often to the Lord with full purpose of heart, we will in quietness and confidence come to know Him and feel His infinite covenantal love for us.
The Lord promised:
“Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me.”
“And ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye shall search for me with all your heart.”
I testify that this promise is true. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Ether 2:14–15.


Isaiah 30:15–16; emphasis added.


2 Nephi 10:24 invites us to re-con-cile our will to God’s will. “Re” means “again,” “con” means “with,” and “cile” is a chair or throne. To reconcile our will to God’s can mean to literally sit again with God.


Russell M. Nelson, “Make Time for the Lord,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 120.


Russell M. Nelson, “What We Are Learning and Will Never Forget,” Liahona, May 2021, 80.


Russell M. Nelson, “What We Are Learning and Will Never Forget,” 80.


David A. Bednar, “Be Still, and Know That I Am God,” Liahona, May 2024, 28.


See Hebrews 11:6.


Lectures on Faith (1985), 72.


Russell M. Nelson, “Drawing the Power of Jesus Christ into Our Lives,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2017, 41.


David O. McKay, “Consciousness of God: Supreme Goal of Life,” Improvement Era, June 1967, 80.


See Doctrine and Covenants 4:2.


See Mosiah 7:33; Ether 2:14.


“A healthy, functioning heart is central to the health and well-being of each of us. However, what I have learned as a servant and witness of Jesus Christ is that a healthy physical heart is only half of our challenge. I take seriously the injunction to love God with all our hearts, because loving Him is what keeps us vibrant” (Russell M. Nelson, The Heart of the Matter: What 100 Years of Living Have Taught Me [2023], 8; emphasis added).


See Psalm 14:2; Revelation 3:20.


3 Nephi 10:5; emphasis added.


Elder Dale G. Renlund taught: “Changing our behavior and returning to the ‘right road’ are part of repentance, but only part. Real repentance also includes a turning of our heart and will to God and a renunciation of sin” (“Repentance: A Joyful Choice,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 121; emphasis added).


3 Nephi 10:6; emphasis added.


Elder Neal A. Maxwell taught, “Increased consecration is not so much a demand for more hours of Church work as it is for more awareness of whose work this really is!” (“Settle This in Your Hearts,” Ensign, Nov. 1992, 67).


Commenting on how his prayers have evolved over time, Desmond Tutu stated: “I think [I am] trying to grow, in just being there. Like when you sit in front of a fire in winter—you are just there in front of the fire. You don’t have to be smart or anything. The fire warms you” (“Desmond Tutu, Insisting We Are ‘Made for Goodness’” [NPR interview by Renee Montagne, Mar. 11, 2010], npr.org).


See Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 117–19.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Living by Scriptural Guidance,” Ensign, Nov. 2000, 16–18; or Liahona, Jan. 2001, 19–22; see also Russell M. Nelson, “The Answer Is Always Jesus Christ,” Liahona, May 2023, 127–28.


See 3 Nephi 17:3. President David O. McKay declared:
“I believe the short period of administering the sacrament is one of the best opportunities we have for such meditation, and there should be nothing during that sacred period to distract our attention from the purpose of that ordinance. …
“I strongly urge that this sacred ordinance be surrounded with more reverence, with perfect order; that each one who comes to the house of God may meditate upon and silently and prayerfully express appreciation for God’s goodness. … Let the sacrament hour be one experience of the day in which the worshiper tries at least to realize within himself that it is possible for him to commune with his God” (“Consciousness of God: Supreme Goal of Life,” Improvement Era, June 1967, 80–81).


See Doctrine and Covenants 59:10.


“When you bring your temple recommend, a contrite heart, and a seeking mind to the Lord’s house of learning, He will teach you” (Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 95).


“He will lead and guide you in your personal life if you will make time for Him in your life—each and every day” (Russell M. Nelson, “Make Time for the Lord,” 121).


See Luke 10:40–42.


3 Nephi 19:19; see also Joseph Smith Translation, Matthew 4:1 (in Matthew 4:1, footnote a); Matthew 5:1; 14:13, 23; Mark 1:35; 6:46; Luke 5:16; 6:12.


See 3 Nephi 21:29.


Doctrine and Covenants 88:63.


Jeremiah 29:13; see also Lamentations 3:25.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Days Never to Be Forgotten","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Days Never to Be Forgotten

By Elder Gary E. Stevenson
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

Upcoming moments will provide members of the Church everywhere with increased opportunities to share the glad tidings of the gospel of Jesus Christ.




Introduction

​My dear brothers and sisters, the history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in this dispensation is resplendent with divine experiences that demonstrate how the Lord has guided His Church. There is one decade in our history, however, that stands strikingly supreme above any other—the decade from 1820 to 1830. Beginning with the Prophet Joseph Smith’s experience in the Sacred Grove in the spring of 1820, when he saw God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ, and continuing until April 6, 1830, that decade is unlike any other.



Consider these remarkable events! The young prophet conversed with the angel Moroni, translated the gold plates, and published the Book of Mormon! He was the instrument through whom the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods were restored, and then he organized the Church! Oliver Cowdery described that era well: “These were days never to be forgotten.” Miraculous events have continued to this very day.
May I be so bold as to suggest that this year we have commenced a decade that may prove to be as momentous as any that has followed that unparalleled founding decade almost two centuries ago.



Our Decade

Let me explain. Between now, 2024, and 2034, we will experience seminal events that will result in extraordinary opportunities to serve, to unite with members and friends, and to introduce The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to more people than ever before.

We just witnessed the power of a truly historic moment as we celebrated with tens of millions the 100th birthday of President Russell M. Nelson.
Reporting on President Nelson’s birthday, Newsweek wrote a headline that read, “World’s Oldest Religious Leader Turns 100.” They then listed the world’s 10 oldest faith leaders—with President Nelson first on a list that included Pope Francis and the Dalai Lama.
This statement from a New York Times article represents the spirit of much of the international coverage: “In a [United States] presidential election cycle that has prompted soul-searching about aging and leadership, Mr. Nelson’s milestone suggests that, at least in his church, a triple-digit birthday does not merit much hand-wringing. He remains a popular figure among church members, who view their president not just as an executive but as a ‘prophet, seer, and revelator.’”
How grateful we are that President Nelson’s landmark birthday gave us an opportunity to introduce a global audience to a prophet of God, a celebration never to be forgotten.

Earlier this spring, a refurbished plaza on Temple Square—featuring a display of international flags representing countries where the Church is recognized—was unveiled. The plaza entrance is marked by a granite monument with these prophetic words: “And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord’s house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.”
Surely, the monumental events that will occur during the next 10 years constitute one manifestation this prophecy of Isaiah is being fulfilled.

Contemplate the unprecedented number of temple open houses and dedications that are planned to take place over the next decade, even the potential of 164 temples and counting. Imagine tens of millions of you and your friends walking through a house of the Lord. The symbolic center of these events will be the rededication of the Salt Lake Temple and the activities associated with it. These certainly will be days never to be forgotten.

The year 2030 will bring opportunities worldwide to commemorate the bicentennial of the organization of the Church. Although it is too early to say how the Church will recognize this milestone, it will certainly allow us to invite family, friends, colleagues, and distinguished guests to “come and see” and to better understand the powerful impact the Church has in the lives of Church members.

In 2034, thousands of dignitaries, visitors, and athletes from around the world will flood the streets of Salt Lake City, the stage for the Winter Olympic Games. There is perhaps no greater demonstration of worldwide unity than that embodied in the Olympic Games. The eyes of the world will be upon the Church and its members, affording a multitude of opportunities to volunteer, serve, and share glad tidings through kind deeds—an event never to be forgotten.
These upcoming moments will provide members of the Church everywhere with increased opportunities to share the glad tidings of the gospel of Jesus Christ through word and deed, a decade never to be forgotten.



Glad Tidings

In a meeting just weeks before his birthday, President Nelson shared the reason he cherishes the phrase “glad tidings.” On the face of it, he noted, the phrase rings of joy and happiness. But “glad tidings” conveys much more than that. He explained that this phrase comes from the original Greek word euangelion, which literally means the “good news” or the “gospel.” Happiness and joy in this life and the next are always linked with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Thus the phrase “glad tidings” captures this double meaning in a wonderful way.
“Men [and women] are, that they might have joy.” Heavenly Father has provided the plan of happiness that enables joy through His blessings. These include living in His presence eternally as families. The Atonement of Jesus Christ is central to God’s plan to redeem us. To receive eternal life, we must come unto Christ. As we do so “and help others do the same, we participate in God’s work of salvation and exaltation.”
This message of the glad tidings of the gospel of Jesus Christ is the most important message on earth. And that is where the youth and young adults of the Church come in.



For the Strength of Youth

Now, while this upcoming decade may be filled with days never to be forgotten for every member of the Church, this especially can be true for you of the rising generation. You are here on earth now because you were selected to be here now. You have the strength and capacity to be disciples of Christ in an unprecedented way.
President George Q. Cannon taught, “God has reserved spirits for this dispensation who have the courage and determination to face the world and all the powers of the evil one [and to] … build up the Zion of our God fearless of all consequences.”
To that end, I wish to speak to you of the rising generation, to invite you to imagine how exciting this next decade, one never to be forgotten, can be for you. I also offer a few simple words of counsel and encouragement that may empower you during this coming decade.
Like many of you, I have a smartphone that, on occasion and without any prompt, pulls together a reel of photos showing what I was doing on a certain day. It is always surprising to see how much things have changed for me and my family in just a few years.
Picture the photos your phone will serve up 10 years from now! You may see yourself graduating from high school or college, receiving your endowment, going on a mission, getting married, and having your first child. For you personally, this will be a decade never to be forgotten. But it will be doubly so if you actively strive to become a light unto the world of how the glad tidings of the gospel of Jesus Christ can enrich and enhance not only your lives but also those of your family, friends, and social media followers.
You may be wondering how to do this.
Prophets of God have taught us this is done through four simple activities, referred to as divinely appointed responsibilities: first, living the gospel of Jesus Christ; second, caring for those in need; third, inviting all to receive the gospel; and fourth, uniting families for eternity. Remarkably, each can be done in the most normal and natural ways.



Divinely Appointed Responsibilities

I promise you this will be a decade never to be forgotten for you if you embrace these four divinely appointed responsibilities. Let’s consider what this might entail.


First, live the gospel of Jesus Christ. Study the words of the prophets, and learn to love your Father in Heaven. Incline your hearts to Him, and strive to walk in His way. Be lifted by the “covenant confidence” that Elder Ulisses Soares has described. This confidence comes from making covenants to follow Jesus Christ, knowing that the Savior will in turn strengthen and support you.
Let your friends see the joy you feel in living the gospel, and you will be the best gospel message they ever receive.
Second, reach out in compassion to care for those in need. Your generation is unusually mindful of the less fortunate. Whenever disaster strikes and Church members rush to help clear away debris and comfort the afflicted, it seems the majority wearing “Helping Hands” T-shirts are teenagers and twentysomethings. It is in your nature “to bear one another’s burdens” and “comfort those that stand in need of comfort.” By doing this we “fulfil the law of Christ.”

Evan, a young Primary-age boy, decided to spend his summer vacation from school gathering supplies for peanut butter and jelly sandwiches to donate to his local food bank. He found the project on the JustServe website. Young Evan enlisted his entire school class to help collect over 700 jars of jelly! Let the people you serve know that your concern for them is rooted in your love of God and your desire to treat your neighbor as yourself.

Third, invite all to receive the gospel. This year we opened 36 new missions worldwide to accommodate all who desire to serve full-time missions. In an era when many youth are opting out of formal religious activity altogether, this is remarkable and speaks to the magnificent nature of your testimonies. Whether serving full-time or not, please realize your immense capacity to influence your peers as you love, share, and invite them to explore the gospel of Jesus Christ.

Fourth, unite families for eternity. As I visit temples around the world, I marvel at the standing-room-only crowds of youth waiting at the baptistry and the increased numbers of young adults serving as ordinance workers. Recently a group of over 600 youth from Scotland and Ireland traveled to the Preston England Temple, performing over 4,000 ordinances, many of which were for their personal deceased ancestors! I urge you to become engaged in family history, spend time in the temple, and carefully prepare yourself to be the kind of man or woman ready to marry an equally worthy companion in the temple. Develop a pattern in your life now to make the temple a regular part of your lives.



Conclusion

My beloved brothers and sisters, my dear young friends, there will likely be difficulties for each of us in the days ahead. However, as we enter this coming decade of unprecedented moments, may we share glad tidings through the simple activities of living, caring, inviting, and uniting. As we do so, the Lord will bless us with experiences never to be forgotten.
I testify that those who approach the Lord with a sincere heart and real intent, those who have the name of the Savior upon their lips and the Holy Spirit in their souls, those who embark upon this grand and glorious pilgrimage will discover and experience bounteous celestial blessings and receive a witness that God hears you, knows you, and loves you. You will experience days never to be forgotten. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Doctrine and Covenants 27:8, 12–13.


Joseph Smith—History 1:71, note.


See Theo Burman, “World’s Oldest Religious Leader Turns 100,” Newsweek, Sept. 9, 2024, newsweek.com.


Ruth Graham, “The Leader of the Mormon Church Turns 100,” New York Times, Sept. 9, 2024, nytimes.com. An Associated Press article quoted a leader at Duke University’s Divinity School as saying, “Age, wisdom and spiritual authority go together” (Angie Hong, in Hannah Schoenbaum and Deepa Bharath, “The Mormon Church’s Oldest-Ever President Has Turned 100,” Sept. 9, 2024, apnews.com).


Isaiah 2:2.


John 1:46.


See James Strong, The New Strong’s Exhaustive Concordance of the Bible (1984), Greek dictionary section, entry 2098.


2 Nephi 2:25.


General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1.2, Gospel Library.


Gospel Truth: Discourses and Writings of President George Q. Cannon, sel. Jerreld L. Newquist (1957), 1:21.


See General Handbook, 1.2, Gospel Library.


See Ulisses Soares, “Covenant Confidence through Jesus Christ,” Liahona, May 2024, 17–21.


Mosiah 18:8, 9.


Galatians 6:2.


See Jessica Lawrence, “Finding Joy in Donating Jelly,” Church News, June 18, 2023, thechurchnews.com.


See Matthew 22:37–40.


See Melina Myers, “Scottish and Irish Youth Perform over 4,000 Ordinances in the Preston England Temple,” Church News, June 13, 2024, thechurchnews.com.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"O Youth of the Noble Birthright","year":"2024","month":"10"}


O Youth of the Noble Birthright

By Brother Bradley R. Wilcox
First Counselor in the Young Men General Presidency

God trusts you, the children of the covenant, to help with His work of bringing all His children safely home to Him.


Elder Stevenson, this is a conference never to be forgotten.
Our family has always enjoyed a little book called Children’s Letters to God. Here are a few:
“Dear God, instead of letting people die and having to make new ones, why don’t you just keep the ones you’ve got right now?”
“How come you only have ten rules, but our school has millions?”
“Why did you put the tonsils in if you’re just going to take them out again?”
Today there isn’t time to answer all these questions, but there is another question I often hear from young people that I would like to address. From Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, to Thomas, Idaho, the question is the same: “Why? Why must Latter-day Saints live so differently from others?”
I know it’s hard to be different—especially when you are young and want so badly for other people to like you. Everyone wants to fit in, and that desire is magnified to unhealthy proportions in today’s digital world filled with social media and cyberbullying.
So, with all that pressure, why do Latter-day Saints live so differently? There are many good answers: Because you are a child of God. Because you have been saved for the last days. Because you are a disciple of Jesus Christ.
But those answers don’t always set you apart. Everyone is a child of God. Everyone on earth right now was sent here in the latter days. And yet not everyone lives the Word of Wisdom or law of chastity the way you strive to. There are many valiant disciples of Christ who are not members of this Church. But they do not serve missions and perform ordinances in houses of the Lord on behalf of ancestors like you do. There must be more to it—and there is.
Today I would like to focus on an additional reason that has been meaningful in my life. In 1988 a young Apostle named Russell M. Nelson gave an address at Brigham Young University called “Thanks for the Covenant.” In it, then-Elder Nelson explained that when we use our moral agency to make and keep covenants with God, we become heirs of the everlasting covenant God has made with our forebearers in every dispensation. Said another way, we become “children of the covenant.” That sets us apart. That gives us access to the same blessings our forefathers and foremothers received, including a birthright.
Birthright! You may have heard that word. We even sing hymns about it: “O youth of the noble birthright, carry on, carry on, carry on!” It’s a compelling word. But what does it mean?
In Old Testament times if a father passed away, his birthright son was responsible for the care of his mother and sisters. His brothers received their inheritance and left to make their way in the world, but the birthright son did not go anywhere. He would marry and have his own family, but he would stay until the end of his days to govern the affairs of his father’s estate. Because of this added responsibility, he was given an added measure of the inheritance. Was leading and caring for others too much to ask? Not when you consider the additional inheritance he was given.
Today we are not talking about your birth order in earthly families or Old Testament gender roles. We are talking about the inheritance you receive as a joint heir with Christ because of the covenant relationship you have chosen to enter with Him and your Father in Heaven. Is it too much for God to expect you to live differently than His other children so you can better lead and serve them? Not when you consider the blessings—both temporal and spiritual—that you have been given.
Does your birthright mean you are better than others? No, but it does mean you are expected to help others be better. Does your birthright mean you are chosen? Yes, but not chosen to rule over others; you are chosen to serve them. Is your birthright evidence of God’s love? Yes, but more important, it is evidence of His trust.
It is one thing to be loved and another thing entirely to be trusted. In the For the Strength of Youth guide, we read: “Your Father in Heaven trusts you. He has given you great blessings, including the fulness of the gospel and sacred ordinances and covenants that bind you to Him and bring His power into your life. With those blessings comes added responsibility. He knows you can make a difference in the world, and that requires, in many cases, being different from the world.”
Our mortal experience could be compared to a cruise ship on which God has sent all His children as they journey from one shore to another. The voyage is filled with opportunities to learn, grow, be happy, and progress, but it is also full of dangers. God loves all His children and is concerned about their welfare. He does not want to lose any of them, so He invites those who are willing to become members of His crew—that’s you. Because of your choice to make and keep covenants, He offers you His trust. He trusts you to be different, peculiar, and set apart because of the important work He trusts you to do.
Think of it! God trusts you—of all the people on the earth, the children of the covenant, His crew members—to help with His work of bringing all His children safely home to Him. No wonder President Brigham Young once said, “All the angels in heaven are looking at this little handful of people.”
When you look around on this cruise ship called earth, you might see other people sitting in lounge chairs drinking, gambling in casinos, wearing clothing that is too revealing, scrolling endlessly on cell phones, and wasting too much time playing electronic games. But instead of wondering, “Why can’t I do that?,” you can remember that you are not an ordinary passenger. You are a member of the crew. You have responsibilities that passengers do not have. As Sister Ardeth Kapp once said, “You can’t be a life[guard] if you look like all the other swimmers on the beach.”
And before you become discouraged by all the extra obligations, please remember that crew members receive something the other passengers do not: compensation. Elder Neil L. Andersen has said, “There is a compensatory spiritual power for the righteous,” including “greater assurance, greater confirmation, and greater confidence.” Like Abraham of old, you receive greater happiness and peace, greater righteousness, and greater knowledge. Your compensation is not merely a mansion in heaven and streets paved with gold. It would be easy for Heavenly Father to simply give you all that He has. His desire is to help you become all that He is. Thus, your commitments demand more of you because that is how God is making more of you.
It’s “a lot to ask of anyone, but you’re not just anyone”! You are youth of the noble birthright. Your covenant relationship with God and Jesus Christ is a relationship of love and trust in which you have access to a greater measure of Their grace—Their divine assistance, endowment of strength, and enabling power. That power is not just wishful thinking, a lucky charm, or self-fulfilling prophecy. It is real.
As you fulfill your birthright responsibilities, you are never alone. The Lord of the vineyard labors with you. You are working hand in hand with Jesus Christ. With each new covenant—and as your relationship with Him deepens—you hold each other tighter and tighter until you are firmly clasped together. In that sacred symbol of His grace, you will find both the desire and the strength to live exactly how the Savior lived—differently from the world. You’ve got this because Jesus Christ has got you!
In 2 Nephi 2:6 we read, “Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for he is full of grace and truth.” Because He is full of truth, He sees you as you really are—flaws, weaknesses, regrets, and all. Because He is full of grace, He sees you as you really can be. He meets you where you are and helps you repent and improve, overcome and become.
“O youth of the noble birthright, carry on, carry on, carry on!” I testify that you are loved—and you are trusted—today, in 20 years, and forever. Don’t sell your birthright for a mess of pottage. Don’t trade everything for nothing. Don’t let the world change you when you were born to change the world. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


In Stuart Hample and Eric Marshall, Children’s Letters to God (1991).


See Russell M. Nelson, “Thanks for the Covenant” (Brigham Young University devotional, Nov. 22, 1988), speeches.byu.edu.


3 Nephi 20:26; see also Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022), Gospel Library; Russell M. Nelson, “Children of the Covenant,” Ensign, May 1995, 32–35.


See 3 Nephi 20:25; see also Guide to the Scriptures, “Abrahamic Covenant,” Gospel Library; Abraham 2:6 (promised land: celestial glory, eternal families); Genesis 13:16; Doctrine and Covenants 132:30–31 (posterity: eternal increase); and Abraham 1:18; 2:11 (priesthood: authority, keys, ordinances, covenants, and divine power); Russell M. Nelson, “Rejoice in the Gift of Priesthood Keys,” Liahona, May 2024, 119–23.


“Carry On,” Hymns, no. 255.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Youth of the Noble Birthright: What Will You Choose?” (Church Educational System devotional for young adults, Sept. 6, 2013), Gospel Library; see also Russell M. Nelson, “Thanks for the Covenant,” speeches.byu.edu; Guide to the Scriptures, “Firstborn,” Gospel Library.


See Luke 12:42; 17:7–10.


See Romans 8:17; see also Doctrine and Covenants 76:54–55; 88:107.


The Lord said, “It is a light thing” (1 Nephi 21:6).


See 1 Peter 2:9.


The Lord said, “Thou art my servant, O Israel” (1 Nephi 21:3).


See Exodus 2:25.


For the Strength of Youth: A Guide for Making Choices (2022), 4; see also Doctrine and Covenants 84:18–25; 107:18–21; Russell M. Nelson, “Youth of the Noble Birthright: What Will You Choose?”


See Doctrine and Covenants 20:77.


See 1 Peter 2:9.


See Moses 1:6; see also “Aaronic Priesthood Quorum Theme,” Gospel Library.


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Brigham Young (1997), 309.


Ardeth Greene Kapp, I Walk by Faith (1987), 97.


See Mosiah 2:22, 41; Doctrine and Covenants 59:23.


Neil L. Andersen, “A Compensatory Spiritual Power for the Righteous” (Brigham Young University devotional, Aug. 18, 2015), 3, speeches.byu.edu.


See Abraham 1:2.


See Dallin H. Oaks, With Full Purpose of Heart (2002), 38.


Kenneth Cope, “The Best for Last,” Voices (album, 1991).


See Alma 53:20; 57:27.


See Dieter F. Uchtdorf, “The Gift of Grace,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2015, 107; see also Guide to the Scriptures, “Grace,” Gospel Library. I used to be confused by the many descriptions of God’s power found throughout the scriptures. They speak of grace as enabling power (see Philippians 4:13) but also the Light of Christ as power (see Doctrine and Covenant 88:13). We read of the power of faith (see Alma 18:35), the power of the Holy Ghost (see Moroni 10:7), and power from on high promised in temples (see Doctrine and Covenants 38:32; 105:11). Scriptures also teach of the power of the priesthood (see Doctrine and Covenants 113:8). I couldn’t figure out where one ended and the others began. Finally, I realized that “there is no other power, save the power of God” (Doctrine and Covenants 8:7; see also Romans 13:1). Different labels for God’s power do not describe different powers but varying amounts, uses, and aspects of the same power.


See Jacob 5:72.


See Jacob 6:5.


See 3 Nephi 22:17.


Hymns, no. 255.


See Genesis 25:29–34.


See 3 Nephi 20:38; see also Isaiah 55:2.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Simple Is the Doctrine of Jesus Christ","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Simple Is the Doctrine of Jesus Christ

By President Henry B. Eyring
Second Counselor in the First Presidency

I bear witness of the sacred work of teaching Heavenly Father’s children the simple doctrine of Jesus Christ.


All of us have family members we love who are being tempted and tried by the seemingly constant forces of Satan, the destroyer, who would make all God’s children miserable. For many of us, there have been sleepless nights. We have tried to surround the people who are at risk with every force for good. We have pled in prayer for them. We have loved them. We have set the best example we could.
Alma, a wise prophet from ancient times, faced similar trials. The people he led and loved were frequently under attack by a ferocious enemy, yet they were still trying to rear righteous children in a world of wickedness. Alma felt his only hope of victory was a force which at times we underestimate and often use too little. He pled for God’s help.
Alma knew that for God to help, repentance was required by those he led, as well as his adversaries. Thus, he opted for a different approach to battle.
The Book of Mormon describes it this way: “And now, as the preaching of the word had a great tendency to lead the people to do that which was just—yea, it had … more powerful effect upon the minds of the people than the sword, or anything else, which had happened unto them—therefore Alma thought it was expedient that they should try the virtue of the word of God.”
The word of God is the doctrine taught by Jesus Christ and by His prophets. Alma knew that the words of doctrine had great power.
In the 18th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord revealed the foundation of His doctrine:
“For, behold, I command all men everywhere to repent. …
“For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him.
“And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance.”
“And you shall fall down and worship the Father in my name.
“… You must repent and be baptized, in the name of Jesus Christ.”
“Ask the Father in my name in faith, believing that you shall receive, and you shall have the Holy Ghost.”
“And now, after … you have received this, you must keep my commandments in all things.”
“Take upon you the name of Christ, and speak the truth in soberness.
“And as many as repent and are baptized in my name, which is Jesus Christ, and endure to the end, the same shall be saved.”
In those few passages, the Savior gives us the perfect example of how we should teach His doctrine. This doctrine is that faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and enduring to the end blesses all of God’s children.
As we teach these principles to those we love, the Holy Ghost will help us to know the truth. Because we need the promptings of the Holy Ghost, we must avoid speculation or personal interpretation that goes beyond teaching true doctrine.
That can be hard to do when you love the person you are trying to influence. He or she may have ignored the doctrine that has been taught. It is tempting to try something new or sensational. But the Holy Ghost will reveal the spirit of truth only as we are cautious and careful not to go beyond teaching true doctrine. One of the surest ways to avoid even getting near false doctrine is to choose to be simple in our teaching. Safety is gained by that simplicity, and little is lost.
Teaching simply allows us to share the saving doctrine early on, while children remain untouched by the deceiver’s temptations that will later confront them, long before the truths they need to learn are drowned out by the noise of social media, peers, and their own personal struggles. We should seize every opportunity to share the teachings of Jesus Christ with children. These teaching moments are precious and far fewer compared to the relentless efforts of opposing forces. For every hour spent instilling doctrine into a child’s life, there are countless hours of opposition filled with messages and images that challenge or ignore those saving truths.
Some of you may wonder whether it might be better to draw your children closer to you through having fun, or you may ask whether the child may start to feel overwhelmed by your teachings. Instead, we should consider, “With so little time and so few opportunities, what words of doctrine can I share that will strengthen them against the inevitable challenges to their faith?” The words you share today could be the ones they carry with them, and today will soon pass.
I have always admired my great-grandmother Mary Bommeli’s devotion to sharing the doctrine of Jesus Christ. Her family was taught by missionaries in Switzerland when she was 24.
After being baptized, Mary desired to join the Saints in America, so she made her way from Switzerland to Berlin and found work with a woman who employed her to weave cloth for the family’s clothing. Mary lived in a servant’s room and set up her loom in the home’s living area.
At that time, teaching the doctrine of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was illegal in Berlin. But Mary found she could not keep from sharing the things she had learned. The woman of the house and her friends would gather around the loom to hear Mary teach. She spoke of the appearance of Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith, the visitation of angels, and the Book of Mormon. Remembering the accounts of Alma, she taught about the doctrine of the Resurrection. She testified that families can be reunited in the celestial kingdom.
Mary’s enthusiasm to share the doctrine of the restored gospel soon caused trouble. It was not long before the police took Mary off to jail. On the way, she asked the policeman for the name of the judge she was to appear before the next morning. She also asked about his family and if he was a good father and husband. The policeman described the judge as a man of the world.
In the jail, Mary requested a pencil and some paper. She spent the night writing a letter to the judge, bearing witness to the Resurrection of Jesus Christ as described in the Book of Mormon, discussing the spirit world, and explaining repentance. She suggested that the judge would need time to reflect on his life before facing final judgment. She wrote that she knew he had much to repent of, much which would deeply sadden his family and bring him great sorrow. In the morning, when she had finished her letter, she gave it to the policeman and asked him to deliver it to the judge, and he agreed to do so.
Later, the policeman was summoned by the judge to his office. The letter Mary had written was irrefutable evidence that she was teaching the doctrine of the restored gospel and, by so doing, breaking the law. However, it wasn’t long before the policeman returned to Mary’s cell. He told her that all charges were dismissed and that she was free to go. Her teaching the doctrine of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ had caused her to be cast into jail. And her declaring the doctrine of repentance to the judge got her cast out of jail.
Mary Bommeli’s teaching did not end with her release. The record of her words passed true doctrine down through generations yet unborn. Her belief that even a new convert could teach the doctrine of Jesus Christ has ensured that her descendants will be strengthened in their own battles.
As we do our best to teach those we love about the doctrine of Jesus Christ, some may still not respond. Doubts may creep into your mind. You might question whether you know the Savior’s doctrine well enough to teach it effectively. And if you’ve already made attempts to teach it, you may wonder why the positive effects aren’t more visible. Don’t give in to those doubts. Turn to God for help.
“Yea, and cry unto God for all thy support; … let the affections of thy heart be placed upon the Lord forever.”
“And now I would that ye should be humble, and be submissive and gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience and long-suffering; being temperate in all things; being diligent in keeping the commandments of God at all times; asking for whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and temporal; always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do receive.”
If you pray, if you talk to God, and if you plead for His help for your loved one, and if you thank Him not only for help but for the patience and gentleness that come from not receiving all you desire right away or perhaps ever, then I promise you that you will draw closer to Him. You will become diligent and long-suffering. And then you can know that you have done all that you can to help those you love and those you pray for navigate through Satan’s attempt to derail them.
“But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.”
You can find hope in the scriptural record of families. We read of those who turned away from what they were taught or who were wrestling with God for forgiveness, such as Alma the Younger, the sons of Mosiah, and Enos. In their moments of crisis, they remembered the words of their parents, words of the doctrine of Jesus Christ. Remembering saved them. Your teaching of that sacred doctrine will be remembered.
I bear witness of the sacred work of teaching Heavenly Father’s children the simple doctrine of Jesus Christ, which allows us to be spiritually cleansed and ultimately be welcomed into God’s presence, to live with Him and His Son in glory forever in families. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Alma 31:5.


Doctrine and Covenants 18:9, 11–12.


Doctrine and Covenants 18:40–41.


Doctrine and Covenants 18:18.


Doctrine and Covenants 18:43.


Doctrine and Covenants 18:21–22.


See Theresa Snow Hill, Life and Times of Henry Eyring and Mary Bommeli (1997), 15–22.


Alma 37:36.


Alma 7:23.


Isaiah 40:31.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Nourish the Roots, and the Branches Will Grow","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Nourish the Roots, and the Branches Will Grow

By Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

The branches of your testimony will draw strength from your deepening faith in Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son.




An Old Chapel in Zwickau

The year 2024 is something of a milestone year for me. It marks 75 years since I was baptized and confirmed a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Zwickau, Germany.
My membership in the Church of Jesus Christ is precious to me. To be counted among God’s covenant people, with you, my brothers and sisters, is one of the greatest honors of my life.
When I think about my personal journey of discipleship, my mind often goes back to an old villa in Zwickau, where I have cherished memories of attending sacrament meetings of the Church of Jesus Christ as a child. It is there where the seedling of my testimony received its earliest nourishing.
This chapel had an old air-driven organ. Every Sunday a young man was assigned to push up and down the sturdy lever operating the bellows to make the organ work. I sometimes had the great privilege of assisting in this important task.
While the congregation sang our beloved hymns, I pumped with all my strength so the organ would not run out of wind. From the bellows operator seat, I had a great view of some stunning stained-glass windows, one depicting the Savior Jesus Christ and another portraying Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove.
I can still remember the sacred feelings I had as I looked at those sunlit windows while listening to the testimonies of the Saints and singing the hymns of Zion.
In that holy place, the Spirit of God bore witness to my mind and heart that it was true: Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. This is His Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith saw God the Father and Jesus Christ and heard Their voices.
Earlier this year, while on assignment in Europe, I had the opportunity to return to Zwickau. Sadly, that beloved old chapel isn’t there anymore. It was torn down many years ago to make room for a large apartment building.



What Is Eternal, and What Is Not?

I admit that it’s sad to know that this beloved building from my childhood is now just a memory. It was a sacred building to me. But it was just a building.
By contrast, the spiritual witness I gained from the Holy Ghost those many years ago has not passed away. In fact, it has grown stronger. The things I learned in my youth about the fundamental principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ have been my firm foundation throughout my life. The covenant connection I forged with my Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son has stayed with me—long after the Zwickau chapel was dismantled and the stained-glass windows were lost.
“Heaven and earth shall pass away,” Jesus said, “but my words shall not pass away.”
“The mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; but my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the Lord.”
One of the most important things we can learn in this life is the difference between what is eternal and what is not. Once we understand that, everything changes—our relationships, the choices we make, the way we treat people.
Knowing what is eternal and what is not is key to growing a testimony of Jesus Christ and His Church.



Don’t Mistake the Branches for the Roots

The restored gospel of Jesus Christ, as the Prophet Joseph Smith taught, “embrace[s] all, and every item of truth.” But that doesn’t mean that all truth is of equal value. Some truths are core, essential, at the root of our faith. Others are appendages or branches—valuable, but only when they are connected to the fundamentals.
The Prophet Joseph also said, “The fundamental principles of our religion are the testimony of the Apostles and Prophets, concerning Jesus Christ, that He died, was buried, and rose again the third day, and ascended into heaven; and all other things which pertain to our religion are only appendages to it.”
In other words, Jesus Christ and His atoning sacrifice are the root of our testimony. All other things are branches.
This is not to say that the branches are unimportant. A tree needs branches. But as the Savior told His disciples, “The branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine.” Without a connection to the Savior, to the nourishment found in the roots, a branch withers and dies.
When it comes to nourishing our testimonies of Jesus Christ, I wonder if we sometimes mistake the branches for the roots. This was the mistake Jesus observed in the Pharisees of His day. They paid so much attention to the relatively minor details of the law that they ended up neglecting what the Savior called “the weightier matters”—fundamental principles like “justice and mercy and faith.”
If you want to nourish a tree, you don’t splash water on the branches. You water the roots. Similarly, if you want the branches of your testimony to grow and bear fruit, nourish the roots. If you are uncertain about a particular doctrine or practice or element of Church history, seek clarity with faith in Jesus Christ. Seek to understand His sacrifice for you, His love for you, His will for you. Follow Him in humility. The branches of your testimony will draw strength from your deepening faith in Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son.
For example, if you want a stronger testimony of the Book of Mormon, focus on its witness of Jesus Christ. Notice how the Book of Mormon testifies of Him, what it teaches about Him, and how it invites and inspires you to come unto Him.
If you’re seeking a more meaningful experience in Church meetings or in the temple, try looking for the Savior in the sacred ordinances we receive there. Find the Lord in His holy house.
If you ever feel burned out or overwhelmed by your Church calling, try refocusing your service on Jesus Christ. Make it an expression of your love for Him.
Nourish the roots, and the branches will grow. And in time, they will bear fruit.



Rooted and Built Up in Him

Strong faith in Jesus Christ doesn’t happen overnight. No, in this mortal world, it’s the thorns and thistles of doubt that grow spontaneously. The healthy, fruitful tree of faith requires intentional effort. And a vital part of that effort is making sure we are firmly rooted in Christ.
For example: At first, we may be drawn to the Savior’s gospel and Church because we are impressed by the friendly members or by the kind bishop or the clean looks of the chapel. These circumstances are certainly important to grow the Church.
Nevertheless, if the roots of our testimony never grow deeper than that, what will happen when we move to a ward that meets in a less impressive building, with members who aren’t so friendly, and the bishop says something that offends us?
Another example: Doesn’t it seem reasonable to hope that if we keep the commandments and are sealed in the temple, we will be blessed with a large, happy family with bright, obedient children, all of whom stay active in the Church, serve missions, sing in the ward choir, and volunteer to help clean the meetinghouse every Saturday morning?
I certainly hope that all of us will see this in our lives. But what if it doesn’t happen? Will we stay bound to the Savior regardless of circumstances—trusting Him and His timing?
We must ask ourselves: Is my testimony based on what I hope to happen in my life? Is it dependent on the actions or attitudes of others? Or is it firmly founded on Jesus Christ, “rooted and built up in him,” regardless of life’s changing circumstances?



Traditions, Habits, and Faith

The Book of Mormon tells of a people who “were strict in observing the ordinances of God.” But then a skeptic named Korihor came along, mocking the Savior’s gospel, calling it the “foolish” and “silly traditions of their fathers.” Korihor led “away the hearts of many, causing them to lift up their heads in their wickedness.” But others he could not deceive, because to them, the gospel of Jesus Christ was much more than a tradition.
Faith is strong when it has deep roots in personal experience, personal commitment to Jesus Christ, independent of what our traditions are or what others may say or do.
Our testimony will be tested and tried. Faith is not faith if never tested. Faith is not strong if never opposed. So don’t despair if you have trials of faith or unanswered questions.
We should not expect to understand everything before we act. That is not faith. As Alma taught, “Faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things.” If we wait to act until all of our questions are answered, we severely limit the good we can accomplish, and we limit the power of our faith.
Faith is beautiful because it persists even when blessings don’t come as hoped for. We can’t see the future, we don’t know all the answers, but we can trust Jesus Christ as we keep moving forward and upward because He is our Savior and Redeemer.
Faith endures the trials and the uncertainties of life because it is firmly rooted in Christ and His doctrine. Jesus Christ, and our Father in Heaven who sent Him, together constitute the one undeviating, perfectly reliable object of our trust.
A testimony is not something that you build once and it stands forever. It’s more like a tree that you nourish constantly. Planting the word of God in your heart is only the first step. Once your testimony starts to grow, then the real work begins! That’s when you “nourish it with great care, that it may get root, that it may grow up, and bring forth fruit.” It takes “great diligence” and “patience with the word.” But the Lord’s promises are sure: “Ye shall reap the rewards of your faith, and your diligence, and patience, and long-suffering, waiting for the tree to bring forth fruit unto you.”
My dear brothers and sisters, my dear friends, there’s a part of me that misses the old Zwickau chapel and its stained-glass windows. But over the past 75 years, Jesus Christ has led me on a journey through life that is more thrilling than I could ever have imagined. He has comforted me in my afflictions, helped me to recognize my weaknesses, healed my spiritual wounds, and nourished me in my growing faith.
It is my sincere prayer and blessing that we will constantly nourish the roots of our faith in the Savior, in His doctrine, and in His Church. Of this I testify in the sacred name of our Savior, our Redeemer, our Master—in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


The year 2024 also marks 30 years since my call as a General Authority and 25 years since our family had to move from Germany to the United States as a result of that calling. And almost exactly 20 years ago—on October 2, 2004—I was sustained as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and a special witness “of the name of Christ in all the world” (Doctrine and Covenants 107:23).


In some ways, my feelings about that building are like what Alma’s people felt about the Waters of Mormon—it was a beautiful place to them because “there [they] came to the knowledge of their Redeemer” (Mosiah 18:30).


Matthew 24:35; see also Joseph Smith—Matthew 1:35.


Isaiah 54:10; see also 3 Nephi 22:10.


President Thomas S. Monson taught this same truth with these words: “I believe that among the greatest lessons we are to learn in this short sojourn upon the earth are lessons that help us distinguish between what is important and what is not. I plead with you not to let those most important things pass you by” (“Finding Joy in the Journey,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2008, 85). Similarly, when President Russell M. Nelson recently encouraged us to “think celestial,” he said, “Mortality is a master class in learning to choose the things of greatest eternal import” (“Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 118).


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2007), 264; see also Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Brigham Young (1997), 16–18.


Teachings: Joseph Smith, 49.


John 15:4.


Matthew 23:23, New Revised Standard Version.


Is it interesting to note archaeological similarities between ancient American cultures and Book of Mormon peoples? It can be. Is it helpful to learn from the accounts of scribes and others about the details of how Joseph Smith translated the Book of Mormon? It is for some. But none of this constitutes a lasting testimony that the Book of Mormon is the word of God. For that, you need to find the Savior in the Book of Mormon, to hear His voice speaking to you. Once this happens, it won’t matter to you where the ancient city of Zarahemla was actually located or what the Urim and Thummim looked like. Those are branches that can be pruned off your tree if needed, but the tree will remain.


See Doctrine and Covenants 84:19–20.


See Joy D. Jones, “For Him,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2018, 50–52.


See Genesis 3:18.


President Nelson has invited all of us “to take charge of [our] own testimony of Jesus Christ and His gospel. Work for it. Nurture it so that it will grow” (“Overcome the World and Find Rest,” Liahona, Nov. 2022, 97).


Colossians 2:7.


Alma 30:3.


See Alma 30:12–16, 31.


Alma 30:18.


Interestingly, Korihor’s arguments were entirely unpersuasive among the recently converted Lamanites, the people of Ammon (see Alma 30:19–20), who were following Christ not because of the tradition of their fathers.
By contrast, the Book of Mormon also tells of a generation of young people who separated themselves from the Lord’s Church because “they did not believe the tradition of their fathers” (see Mosiah 26:1–4). It’s good for families to establish righteous traditions. But it’s just as important for families to clearly understand the why behind those traditions. Why do we pray every morning and night? Why do we have family scripture study? Why do we hold weekly home evening, family activities and service projects, and so on? If our children understand how these traditions draw us closer to Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ, they’ll be more likely to continue them—and improve on them—in their own families.


Alma 32:21. Faith is powerful not because of what it knows but because of what it does.


See Hebrews 10:23.


Alma 32:37, 41–43.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Words of Christ and the Holy Ghost Will Lead Us to the Truth","year":"2024","month":"10"}


The Words of Christ and the Holy Ghost Will Lead Us to the Truth

By Elder Takashi Wada
Of the Seventy

Knowing this incredible plan will help us know we are children of God and we can become like Him.


God is our Father in Heaven. We are His spirit children, and we are created after His image. Therefore, each of us, as a child of God, has a divine potential to become like Him.
We lived with Him as spirits before we came to this earth. Heavenly Father, as our spirit parent, loves us, wants the best for us, and prepared a plan for us to receive His greatest blessings, which are immortality and eternal life. According to the plan, we, as spirit children, would be given agency to choose His plan. By coming to the earth, we would leave God’s presence, forget our premortal life, receive bodies of flesh and bones, gain our own experience, and develop faith. With our bodies of flesh and bones, as natural men we would succumb to temptation, become unclean and distant from God, and not be able to return to His holy presence. Because of Heavenly Father’s infinite love for us, He sent His Firstborn Son, Jesus Christ, to be our Savior. Through His sacrifice, the Atonement, Jesus Christ made it possible for us to be redeemed from our sins and be resurrected and receive eternal life.
I am extremely grateful for these glorious truths—what we call the Father’s plan of salvation, His plan of mercy, or His great plan of happiness. Learning these important truths has helped me know my true identity and the great blessings of exaltation and eternal life God has prepared for us. The prophet Nephi taught us the way: “Wherefore, … feast upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do.” He added, “If ye will enter in by the way, and receive the Holy Ghost, it will show unto you all things what ye should do.” Today I would like to share how the words of Christ and the Holy Ghost helped me find these important peace-giving truths in my teenage years.


The Words of Christ Will Tell You All Things What You Should Do

Just like Nephi stated in the opening verse of the book of 1 Nephi, I was also “born of goodly parents.” I grew up in Nagano, Japan, in a home where honesty, diligence, and humility were strongly encouraged and conformity to the old customs was strictly followed. My father was a very religious man. I watched him praying in front of the Shinto and Buddhist altars every morning and every night. Even though I had no idea whom he was praying to and what he was praying for, I believed some sort of unseen power or God would be “mighty to save” or help us if we prayed sincerely.
Like other teenagers, I experienced many hardships. I struggled, thinking that life was unfair and had lots of ups and downs. I felt lost, not having a sense of direction in my life. Life seemed so fleeting because it would end when I died. Life without knowing the plan of salvation was confusing.
Not long after I started to learn English in junior high school, all the students in our school received a copy of the New Testament. Though we had barely begun our study of English, our teacher told us we should study English by reading it. I opened it and reviewed its contents. The words in the New Testament were extremely difficult for me. The words in Japanese were equally difficult. However, I was drawn to a list of statements and questions of the soul that had been included just before the biblical text in this Gideon Bible—questions about feeling lonely, lacking confidence, being confused, facing life’s trials, and so on. Each item on the list was followed by a reference to verses and pages in the New Testament. I was especially drawn to the statement “When you are weary.” The reference led me to open Matthew 11:28–30, in which Jesus said to His disciples:
“Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.
“For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”
This was the first time I remember reading the words of Jesus Christ. Though I did not understand all the words He said, His words comforted me, lifted my soul, and gave me hope. The more I read His words, the more I felt like I should try the virtue of His words. I had never felt like I felt that day. I felt I was loved. I felt that Jesus Christ was someone I knew.
As I continued studying, I felt as though He were speaking directly to me when He said, “Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.”
His words filled my heart, even though I could not describe my feelings well at that time. Although Jesus Christ lived many centuries ago in a land unfamiliar to me, I thought I could trust His words with all my heart. I hoped someday in the future I might learn more about Jesus Christ.



The Holy Ghost Will Show You All Things What You Should Do

That someday came only a few years later. I met very dedicated, young, full-time missionaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And I soon met a small group of kind and joyful Latter-day Saints striving to follow Jesus Christ. Despite it taking me a while to fully trust them, I came to see in the restored gospel what I yearned for when I studied the New Testament—the words of Jesus Christ and the hope and peace that come from them.
A particularly sacred experience was when the missionaries taught me to pray. I learned that we should address God by name. When we pray, we should speak from our hearts, express our gratitude, and share our hopes and desires. Once we have said all that we want to say, we end our prayer by saying, “In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.” We do this because Jesus commanded us to pray in His name. Praying to Heavenly Father helped me know who He is and my relationship with Him—that I was His beloved spirit son. I learned that because Heavenly Father knows and loves me, He would speak to me personally, uniquely, and in ways I would understand through the Holy Ghost.
There was a time when I really could not recognize the Holy Ghost. I misunderstood, thinking that all I had to do was follow the steps of prayer and something dramatic would happen. One day, during a lesson with the missionaries, I stepped out of the lesson to take a break. I was still confused about what I should do with my life if the restored gospel of Jesus Christ really was true.
As I was about to return to the room where the missionaries were waiting, I heard the voice of one of the missionaries. I heard my name. Instead of opening the door, I listened to the voice on the other side of the door. I was stunned. They were simply praying to Heavenly Father. The one saying the prayer was pleading to God that He would hear my prayer. Though his Japanese was not fluent, hearing his sincere prayer softened my heart. I wondered why they cared about me so much. Then I realized that their prayer in my behalf was a reflection of Heavenly Father and the Savior’s love for me. That love gave me hope, and afterward I did ask God in faith and with real intent. When I did, I felt a joyful and peaceful feeling that I was indeed a child of God and that I had a divine potential and destiny. The plan of salvation sank deep into my heart.
President Russell M. Nelson has said, “The way you think about who you … are affects … every decision you will ever make.” It is so true for me. The decision to follow the Savior Jesus Christ by being baptized and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost blessed my life more than I ever imagined. As we enter into the baptismal covenant with God, we promise that we are willing to take upon ourselves the name of Jesus Christ, keep the commandments of God, and serve Him for the remainder of our lives. Our Heavenly Father, in turn, promises us that we can always have His Spirit to be with us—the continued guidance from the Holy Ghost.
I invite you to have faith in the message Nephi taught us—that the words of Christ and the Holy Ghost will direct you to “all things what [you] should do.” Everything! This is an incredible gift from God.
Brothers and sisters, I am grateful for our Heavenly Father’s plan of salvation. Because He loves us, He prepared the way to return to His presence through His Only Begotten Son, Jesus Christ. Knowing this incredible plan will help us know we are children of God and we can become like Him. I am grateful for this important truth. I bear you my witness that the words of Jesus Christ and the Holy Ghost will lead us to receive eternal life. I know these things are true. In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.



Notes


See Acts 17:29; Romans 8:16; Hebrews 12:9; Doctrine and Covenants 76:24.


See Genesis 1:26–27; Moses 2:27.


See Jeremiah 1:5; Doctrine and Covenants 93:23; Abraham 3:22–23.


See Doctrine and Covenants 14:7; Moses 1:39; Abraham 3:24–27.


See 2 Nephi 2:27; Moses 7:32.


See Abraham 3:25.


See 1 Peter 1:19–20; Revelation 13:8; Moses 4:2; Abraham 3:27; Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ (2023), 50; General Handbook: Serving in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1.1, Gospel Library.


2 Nephi 32:3.


2 Nephi 32:5.


“Learn wisdom in thy youth” (Alma 37:35).


1 Nephi 1:1.


Alma 34:18; see also verse 17.


Gideon Bible.


See Alma 31:5.


Matthew 5:6.


See “How to Pray,” ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See 3 Nephi 18:19–20.


See Camille N. Johnson, “The Savior Speaks to Us Personally, Uniquely, and in Ways We Will Understand,” Inspiration (blog), June 15, 2022, ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See 1 Nephi 2:16; notice how Nephi’s heart was softened after crying unto God.


See 1 Kings 19:11–12—felt the still small voice within reaching out to my mind and heart; 1 Nephi 2:16—how God softened Nephi’s heart as he prayed; Enos 1:3—the joy of the Saints (the gospel) sunk deep into my heart; Moroni 10:4—pray with real intent.


Russell M. Nelson, “Choices For Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022), Gospel Library.


See 2 Nephi 31:13–14; Mosiah 18:10, 13; Doctrine and Covenants 20:37.


2 Nephi 32:3; see also verse 5.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"“Behold I Am the Light Which Ye Shall Hold Up”","year":"2024","month":"10"}


“Behold I Am the Light Which Ye Shall Hold Up”

By Elder Ronald A. Rasband
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

We hold up the Lord’s light when we hold fast to our covenants and when we support our living prophet.


To the many testimonies at this conference, I add my apostolic witness that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, our Lord and Savior, the Redeemer of all of our Father’s children. By His Atonement, Jesus Christ made it possible for us, if we are worthy, to return to the presence of our Father in Heaven and be with our families for eternity.
The Savior is not absent from our mortal journeys. For the past two days we have heard Him speak through His chosen leaders that we might draw closer to Him. Time and again, with His pure love and mercy, He sustains us as we face the drama of life. Nephi describes: “My God hath been my support; he hath led me though mine afflictions. … He hath filled me with his love.”
That love is evident when we sustain one another in His work.
We sustain our living prophet at general conference, and the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, General Authorities, and Officers of the Church. To sustain means to hold up another person, to give them our attention, to be faithful to their trust, to act upon their words. They speak by inspiration of the Lord; they understand the current issues, the moral decline of society, and the adversary’s increasing efforts to thwart the Father’s plan. In holding up our hands, we are committing our support, not just for that moment but in our daily lives.
Sustaining includes holding up our stake presidents and bishops, quorum and organization leaders, teachers, and even camp directors in our wards and stakes. Closer to home, we hold up our wives and our husbands, children, parents, extended family, and neighbors. When we hold up one another we are saying, “I am here for you, not just to hold up your arms and hands when they ‘hang down’ but to be a comfort and strength at your side.”
The concept to hold up is rooted in scripture. At the Waters of Mormon, the newly baptized Church members committed “to bear one another’s burdens, that they may be light; … [to] comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places.”
To the Nephites, Jesus said: “Hold up your light that it may shine unto the world. Behold I am the light which ye shall hold up.” We hold up the Lord’s light when we hold fast to our covenants and when we support our living prophet as he speaks the words of God.
President Russell M. Nelson said, when serving in the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, “Our sustaining of prophets is a personal commitment that we will do our utmost to uphold their prophetic priorities.”
To hold up the prophet is a sacred work. We do not sit quietly by but actively defend him, follow his counsel, teach his words, and pray for him.
King Benjamin, in the Book of Mormon, said to the people, “I am like as yourselves, subject to all manner of infirmities in body and mind; yet I have been chosen … and was suffered by the hand of the Lord … and have been kept and preserved by his matchless power, to serve you with all the might, mind and strength which the Lord hath granted unto me.”

Likewise, at age 100, President Nelson has been kept and preserved by the Lord. President Harold B. Lee, at the time a member of the First Presidency, cited the example of Moses standing atop the hill at Rephidim. “The hands of [the President of the Church] may grow weary,” he said. “They may tend to droop at times because of his heavy responsibilities; but as we uphold his hands, and as we lead under his direction, by his side, the gates of hell will not prevail against you and against Israel. Your safety and ours depends upon whether or not we follow the ones whom the Lord has placed to preside over his church. He knows whom he wants to preside over this church, and he will make no mistake.”
President Nelson draws upon years of serving the Lord. His maturity, wide-ranging experience, wisdom, and consistent receipt of revelation is specifically suited for our day. He has said: “The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is preparing the world for the day when ‘the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord’ (Isaiah 11:9). … This work is empowered by a divine announcement made 200 years ago. It consisted of only seven words: ‘This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!’ (see Joseph Smith—History 1:17).”
President Nelson has also said: “There has never been a time in the history of the world when knowledge of our Savior is more personally vital and relevant to every human soul. Imagine how quickly the devastating conflicts throughout the world—and those in our individual lives—would be resolved if we all chose to follow Jesus Christ and heed His teachings.”
Brothers and sisters, we need to do more lifting and less murmuring, more upholding the word of the Lord, His ways, and His prophet, who has said: “One of our greatest challenges today is distinguishing between the truths of God and the counterfeits of Satan. That is why the Lord warned us to ‘pray always, … that [we] may conquer Satan, and … escape the hands of the servants of Satan that do uphold [the adversary’s] work’ [Doctrine and Covenants 10:5; emphasis added].”

Last April, Sister Rasband and I had the honor of joining our beloved prophet and Sister Nelson for the rededication of the Manti Utah Temple.
President Nelson surprised everyone when he entered the room. Only a very few of us knew he was coming. In his presence, I immediately felt the light and prophetic mantle he carries. The look of joy on the faces of the people personally seeing the prophet will stay with me forever.
In the prayer of rededication, President Nelson petitioned the Lord that His holy house would essentially hold up all who entered the temple, “that they may receive sacred blessings and remain worthy and faithful to their covenants … that this may be a house of peace, a house of comfort, and a house of personal revelation for all who enter these doors worthily.”
We all need to be lifted up by the Lord with peace, with comfort, and most of all with personal revelation to counter the fear, darkness, and contention encompassing the world.
Before the service, we stood outside in the sun with President and Sister Nelson to view the beautiful setting. President Nelson’s ancestral ties to the area run deep. His eight great-grandparents settled in the valleys surrounding the temple, as did some of mine. My great-grandfather Andrew Anderson served on the construction crew of early pioneers who labored 11 years to complete the Manti Temple, the third in the Rocky Mountains.
As we stood with President Nelson, we had the opportunity to hold up and support the prophet of God in celebration of the rededication of the Lord’s holy house. It was a day I will never forget.
“We build temples to honor the Lord,” President Nelson said that sacred day. “They are built for worship and not for show. We make sacred covenants of eternal significance inside these sacred walls.” We are gathering Israel.
President Nelson and the prophets before him have cradled the holy temples in their arms. Today, around the world, we have 350 sacred houses of the Lord that are operating, announced, or under construction. As prophet, since 2018, President Nelson has announced 168 temples.
“In our time,” he has said, “a whole, complete, and perfect union of all dispensations, keys, and powers are to be welded together (see Doctrine and Covenants 128:18). For these sacred purposes, holy temples now dot the earth. I emphasize again that construction of these temples may not change your life, but your service in the temple surely will.”
“The Savior and His doctrine are the very heart of the temple,” the President says. “Everything taught in the temple, through instruction and through the Spirit, increases our understanding of Jesus Christ. His essential ordinances bind us to Him through sacred priesthood covenants. Then, as we keep our covenants, He endows us with His healing, strengthening power.”
“All who worship in the temple,” President Nelson has said, “will have the power of God and angels having ‘charge over them’ [Doctrine and Covenants 109:22]. How much does it increase your confidence to know that, as an endowed woman or man [or temple-attending youth] armed with the power of God, you do not have to face life alone? What courage does it give you to know that angels really will help you?”
Angels reaching out to hold us up is described in the scriptures when Jesus Christ knelt humbly in the Garden of Gethsemane. By His suffering He provided an infinite Atonement. “There,” President Nelson states, “the greatest single act of love of all recorded history took place. … There at Gethsemane, the Lord ‘suffered the pain of all men, that all … might repent and come unto him’ [Doctrine and Covenants 18:11].”
“Remove this cup from me,” Jesus Christ asked, “nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.
“And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him.”
We have angels round about us today. President Nelson has said, “[In the temple,] you will learn how to part the veil between heaven and earth, how to ask for God’s angels to attend you.”
Angels bring light. God’s light. To His Nephite Apostles, Jesus said, “Behold I am the light which ye shall hold up.” As we sustain our prophet, we testify he is called of our Savior, who is “the light … of the world.”
Dear President Nelson, on behalf of the members and friends of the Lord’s Church throughout the world, we feel blessed to hold up your teachings, to hold up your example of Christlike living, and to hold up your fervent testimony of our Lord and Savior, the Redeemer of us all.
I bear my apostolic witness that Jesus Christ is “the light … of the world.” May we all, as His disciples, “hold up” His light. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See Doctrine and Covenants 1:38.


2 Nephi 4:20–21.


See Ronald A. Rasband, “Words Matter,” Liahona, May 2024, 70–76.


Doctrine and Covenants 81:5.


Mosiah 18:8–9.


3 Nephi 18:24; emphasis added.


Russell M. Nelson, “Sustaining the Prophets,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2014, 75.


Mosiah 2:11.


See Doctrine and Covenants 21:6; 81:5.


Harold B. Lee, in Conference Report, Oct. 1970, 153.


In “The Restoration of the Fulness of the Gospel of Jesus Christ: A Bicentennial Proclamation to the World,” it states: “We gladly declare that the promised Restoration goes forward through continuing revelation. The earth will never again be the same, as God will ‘gather together in one all things in Christ’ (Ephesians 1:10).”


Russell M. Nelson, “The Future of the Church: Preparing the World for the Savior’s Second Coming,” Ensign, Apr. 2020, 12–13; or Liahona, Apr. 2020, 6–7.


Russell M. Nelson, “Pure Truth, Pure Doctrine, and Pure Revelation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 6.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 99.


“Dedicatory Prayer, Manti Utah Temple, 21 April 2024,” ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


In the Book of Mormon, the prophet Mormon tried to comfort his son Moroni in a letter when Moroni was alone and hunted by enemies. He wrote, “May Christ lift thee up, and may his sufferings and death … rest in your mind forever” (Moroni 9:25).


Before the dedication of the Manti Utah Temple in 1888, two other temples in Utah had already been dedicated: the St. George Utah Temple in 1877 and the Logan Utah Temple in 1884. The first temple of the Restoration was built in Kirtland, Ohio, and dedicated in 1836. Great spiritual manifestations accompanied the services, and priesthood keys were restored by Moses, Elias, and Elijah so that temple work and the gathering of Israel could begin in earnest.
Joseph Smith recorded, “It was a Pentecost and an endowment indeed, long to be remembered, for the sound shall go forth from this place into all the world, and the occurrences of this day shall be handed down upon the pages of sacred history to all generations, as the day of Pentecost, so shall this day be numbered and celebrated as a year of Jubilee and time of rejoicing to the Saints of the Most High God” (Joseph Smith, Journal, 1835–1836, 189–90, josephsmithpapers.org; spelling, capitalization, and punctuation modernized). The Nauvoo Temple was dedicated officially in May 1846, after the majority of the Saints had abandoned their homes and community. More than 6,000 Saints made temple covenants before fleeing to the West. (See Church History Topics, “Nauvoo Temple,” Gospel Library.)


Russell M. Nelson, in “President Nelson Rededicates Manti Utah Temple,” Apr. 21, 2024, newsroom.ChurchofJesusChrist.org.


See Scott Taylor, “A By-the-Numbers Look at the 168 Temples Announced by President Nelson,” Church News, Apr. 14, 2024, thechurchnews.com.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Future of the Church,” 8–9.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” Liahona, Nov. 2021, 93–94.


Russell M. Nelson, “Rejoice in the Gift of Priesthood Keys,” Liahona, May 2024, 121.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Atonement,” Ensign, Nov. 1996, 35.


Luke 22:42–43.


Russell M. Nelson, “The Temple and Your Spiritual Foundation,” 96.


3 Nephi 18:24.


3 Nephi 11:11.


3 Nephi 11:11.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Sacred Scriptures—the Foundations of Faith","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Sacred Scriptures—the Foundations of Faith

By Elder Quentin L. Cook
Of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

We cannot underestimate the significance of sacred scriptures both in conversions and in remaining faithful in the gospel.


My wife, Mary, and I recently saw a T-shirt with the picture of a book and a message on the front which read, “Books: The Original Handheld Device.”

I thought about this interesting message and how significant handheld devices of all kinds have become. Upon further contemplation, I realized that any device or even one equipped with artificial intelligence will never be as important or significant as the spiritual guidance that comes from divine revelation.
Whether handheld or digital, the Holy Bible and the Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ provide spiritual guidance and teaching from Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world. We treasure these books for their profound role in documenting God’s direction to ancient prophets and people and the guidance they provide for our own personal lives.
Combined with the teachings of living prophets, these sacred scriptures provide doctrinal direction for us in today’s world. These scriptures are most powerful when they give instruction, correction, comfort, and consolation to individuals and families who seek guidance from the Lord.
The scriptures, combined with spiritual inspiration from the Holy Spirit, continue to be the primary source that facilitates the conversion of those who have broken hearts and contrite spirits and desire to follow Jesus Christ. The scriptures help build a foundation that can withstand the adversary’s constant efforts to undermine faith.
New converts have blessed and been the lifeblood of the Church throughout its history. One example is particularly precious to me. When I was a young bishop, two marvelous sister missionaries were teaching the William Edward Mussman family. The father, a very capable lawyer, was general counsel of a major corporation. His devoted wife, Janet, was helping the family strive to live a more Christlike life.
Their exceptional son and daughter, both in their early 20s, were also being taught. All four had received the lessons and were attending church. The sister missionaries had emphasized reading the Book of Mormon and praying for a testimony of that sacred scripture. Remarkably, the family prayerfully read the entire Book of Mormon in a short time.
The stake missionaries, both of whom were prior ward Relief Society presidents, accompanied them to sacrament meetings.
As the family was nearing baptism, they received a barrage of literature critical of the Church. This was before the internet, but the material filled a large cardboard box.
The sister missionaries invited me as a recently called 34-year-old bishop to help answer the questions being raised. When we gathered in their living room, the large box of pamphlets critical of the Church was in the middle of the room. I had prayerfully approached this assignment. During the opening prayer, the Spirit whispered to me, “He already knows it is true.” This was important. The sisters believed that the rest of the family already had a testimony. They were unsure about the father.
I immediately informed him that the Spirit had prompted me that he already had a testimony. “Was that true?” He looked at me intently and said that the Spirit had confirmed the truth of the Book of Mormon and the Church to him.
I then asked whether it would be necessary to review the pamphlets, if they already had a spiritual confirmation.
The father replied that it would not be necessary. The rest of the family concurred with his answer.
He said he did have a significant question: One reason they had received so much literature opposing the Church was that they were members of another faith. In addition, he had made a large pledge to help build a new chapel for that faith. He informed me that the sister missionaries had taught him about the importance of tithing, which he gratefully accepted, but he wondered if it would be wrong to also honor the pledge he had previously made. I assured him that payment of the pledge would be both honorable and appropriate.



The Mussmans with their son, daughter-in-law, and daughter.


The entire family was baptized. One year later they were sealed as a family in the Oakland California Temple. I was privileged to be present. The son completed law school, passed the California Bar Exam, and immediately served a faithful mission in Japan. I have watched over the years as the succeeding generations have remained faithful to the gospel. I was privileged to officiate at the sealing of one of the granddaughters.
The conversions that are occurring in our day are equally remarkable. Last June, Coach Andy Reid, head football coach of the Kansas City Chiefs, and I, along with others representing our faith and other faiths, spoke in a multifaith event at the Riverside Church in New York City. Coach Reid emphasized second chances and responding to invitations and opportunities, which is what the gospel of Jesus Christ is all about. The next morning, with our wives, Tammy Reid and Mary, we attended the sacrament meeting at the Manhattan Second Ward. It was a spiritual service. There were many new converts in the congregation. Five recently baptized members, four men and one young man, were among the Aaronic Priesthood members passing the sacrament. I am happy to report that a similar influx of new members is happening throughout the Church.
We are grateful for the noticeable increase in those who respond to sacred invitations, change their lives, and accept the opportunity to follow Jesus Christ. They enter the covenant path through faith, repentance, baptism, and confirmation as taught in the Holy Bible and the Book of Mormon.
We cannot underestimate the significance of sacred scriptures both in conversions and in remaining faithful in the gospel. The ancient prophets described in the Book of Mormon knew about the mission of Jesus Christ and taught His gospel. The Book of Mormon helps us draw closer to God as we learn, understand, and apply its teachings. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught, “A man [or woman] would get nearer to God by abiding by [the book’s] precepts, than by any other book.”
To know that the Book of Mormon is the word of God, we need to read, ponder, and pray about it and then act according to its precepts. The prophet Moroni promised that God will reveal the truth of the book to us as we pray with a sincere heart, with real intent, and with faith in Christ. Studying the Book of Mormon is essential for enduring conversion.
As we contemplate the relationship between the Bible and the Book of Mormon as handheld devices, one might ask a question. How useful and complementary do you think two books would be if the Lord declared they would be joined together and “become one in thine hand”? That is what the Lord declared concerning the “stick of Judah,” the Bible, and the “stick of Joseph,” the Book of Mormon.
In many significant respects, the Book of Mormon provides fundamental doctrine that enhances and builds upon the Bible. The doctrine of the Atonement of Jesus Christ is a profound example.
The Bible provides an accurate account of the mortal ministry of Jesus Christ, including His death and Resurrection. The Book of Mormon is more explicit about the Atonement of Jesus Christ, something prophets explained in detail prior to His death.
The heading to Alma chapter 42 reflects the doctrinal significance of the Atonement of Jesus Christ.
It reads: “Mortality is a probationary time to enable man to repent and serve God—The Fall brought temporal and spiritual death upon all mankind—Redemption comes through repentance—God Himself atones for the sins of the world—Mercy is for those who repent—All others are subject to God’s justice—Mercy comes because of the Atonement—Only the truly penitent are saved.”
President Russell M. Nelson has said, “I promise that as you prayerfully study the Book of Mormon every day, you will make better decisions—every day.” He also promises that if “you daily immerse yourself in the Book of Mormon, you can be immunized against the evils of the day.”
As I mentioned, I was impressed with the concept of the original handheld device—a book. However, I recognize the incredible significance of the internet in the world today. One modern handheld device can provide the information that historically has filled a major library. We are grateful to live in such a time as this. I am particularly grateful that it allows sacred books and Church materials to be available digitally. The internet is a powerful tool for studying the gospel. Today, many people share scriptures with friends using technology. The Book of Mormon app, for example, is a wonderful way to introduce friends to the Book of Mormon and can easily be shared in normal and natural ways wherever you may be.

While the internet provides many blessings, unfortunately, like the written pamphlets critical of the Church I described earlier, it has also been used to create doubt and undermine faith in precious gospel principles. It can be part of the “evils of the day” that President Nelson mentioned.
The adversary and those who assist him, knowingly or unwittingly, have created on the internet the equivalent of the box full of written material critical of the Church I described earlier, intended to draw you away from God’s truth.
The issues raised to create doubt over the years have been remarkably similar. This is especially true when you compare our day with the 1960s, when I was in my 20s.
The scriptures teach us to use judgment and be wise in all things. The internet can be used in a positive way or a destructive way.
Both long-term members and those newly studying the gospel need to be intentional about what they view. Do not entertain immoral, dishonest, or unrighteous material. If you do, algorithms can lead you down a path that destroys faith and impairs your eternal progression. You can be acted upon positively or negatively. Seek righteousness and avoid dark internet rabbit holes and doomscrolling. Fill your life with positive, righteous ideas; be joyful; have fun but avoid foolishness. There is a difference. The thirteenth article of faith is a marvelous guide. Above all, immerse yourself regularly in the Book of Mormon, which will draw the Spirit into your life and help you discern truth from error.
My counsel for those who have in any way deviated from the covenant path is to return to the sacred scriptures, prophetic guidance, religious observance in the home, and the music of faith. Every soul is precious to the Lord. We need you! The Lord needs you, and you need Him! You will always be welcome. During my many years of Church service, I have cherished the wonderful people who returned to the covenant path and then served and blessed everyone they loved or with whom they came in contact.
The sacred scriptures and living prophets are a major way a loving Heavenly Father makes His plan of happiness available to all His children.
I bear my sure witness of the divinity of Jesus Christ and the reality of His Atonement, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


See 2 Timothy 3:16.


See Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel of Jesus Christ (2023), 28; see also 2 Nephi 2:7; 3 Nephi 12:19; Doctrine and Covenants 20:37; Ezra Taft Benson, “A Mighty Change of Heart,” Ensign, Oct. 1989, 2–5.


Sisters Beverly Bridge and Cheryl Morgan were the sister missionaries.


The son, William E. Mussman III, had graduated from Stanford and was attending law school at the University of California, in San Francisco. His sister, Ann C. Mussman, was attending Stanford University.


Sisters Eleanor Mehr and Louise Johnson were the stake missionaries.


The New York Latter-day Saint Professional Association (NYLDSPA) honored Reverend A. R. Bernard and Coach Andrew “Andy” W. Reid at the historic interdenominational Riverside Church in Manhattan. Church leaders from our faith and many other faiths were also present, including prior honoree Rabbi Joseph Potasnik.


See Tad Walch, “How Andy Reid’s Beliefs in Jesus Christ and a Second Chance for Michael Vick Guide the Kansas City Chiefs,” Deseret News, July 3, 2024, deseret.com.


Over 198,000 new converts have been baptized between January 1, 2024, through August 30, 2024 (information provided by the Missionary Department).


Preach My Gospel chapter 5 describes why the Book of Mormon is the keystone of our religion.


Introduction to the Book of Mormon.


The Prophet Joseph Smith testified that a man would get nearer to God by abiding by the precepts taught in the Book of Mormon than by any other book (see the introduction to the Book of Mormon).


See Moroni 10:4.


See Ezekiel 37:15–17; see also 2 Nephi 3:12.


The word Atonement, referring to the Atonement of Jesus Christ, is mentioned only once in the New Testament (see Romans 5:11). In the Book of Mormon, the word Atonement is referenced 24 times. 2 Nephi 2:10 describes “the happiness” which is affixed through the Atonement (see also index to the Book of Mormon, “Jesus Christ, Atonement through”).


Russell M. Nelson, “The Book of Mormon: What Would Your Life Be Like without It?,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2017, 62–63.


Just think how blessed we are every week as we study from Come, Follow Me online.


Some of the issues are simply untrue. Some take historical facts out of context. Some are advocating for social issues that are inconsistent with both the Bible and the Book of Mormon. Some are on issues that the Lord has not yet provided revelation.


Doomscrolling is the act of habitually and obsessively searching for negative or depressing news on social media or news feeds (see Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, “doomscroll”).


The Church has experienced significant growth and increased attendance in recent years. The percent leaving the Church is less than in the past, but we need every member.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Sons and Daughters of God","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Sons and Daughters of God

By Elder Rubén V. Alliaud
Of the Seventy

We truly believe that we are all literally the children of God, and because of that, we have the potential to become like Him.


Today I would like to address one of the most joyful, glorious, and powerful gospel truths that God has revealed. At the same time, it is ironically one for which we have been criticized. An experience I had some years ago profoundly deepened my appreciation for this gospel truth.
As a representative of the Church, I was once invited to a religious conference where it was announced that from that moment on they would recognize as valid all baptisms performed by almost all other Christian churches, as long as the ordinance was done with water and in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Then it was explained that this policy did not apply to baptisms performed by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
After the conference I was able to delve deeper into the reasons for that exception with the leader in charge of the announcement. We had a wonderful and insightful conversation.
In short, he explained to me that that exception had primarily to do with our particular beliefs about the Godhead, which other Christian denominations often refer to as the Trinity. I expressed my appreciation for him taking the time to explain to me his beliefs and the policy of his church. At the end of our conversation, we hugged and then said goodbye.
As I later contemplated our discussion, what this leader said about Latter-day Saints not understanding what he called the “mystery of the Trinity” stayed in my mind. What was he referring to? Well, it had to do with our understanding of the nature of God. We believe that God the Father “is an exalted man” with a glorified “body of flesh and bones as tangible as man’s; [and] the Son also.” Thus, every time we talk about the nature of God, in some way, somehow, we are also talking about our own nature.
And this is true not only because we all were made “in [His] image, after [His] likeness,” but also because, as the Psalmist recorded, God said, “Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High.” This is for us a precious doctrine now recovered with the advent of the Restoration. In summary, it is nothing more or less than what our missionaries teach as the first lesson, first paragraph, first line: “God is our Heavenly Father, and we are His children.”
Now, you might say, “But many people believe we are children of God.” Yes, that is true, but their understanding may be a little different from the implication of its deeper meaning that we affirm. For Latter-day Saints, this teaching is not metaphorical. Rather, we truly believe that we are all literally the children of God. He is “the Father of [our] spirits,” and because of that, we have the potential to become like Him, which seems to be inconceivable to some.
It has now been over 200 years since the First Vision opened the doors to the Restoration. At the time, young Joseph Smith sought guidance from heaven to know what church to join. Through the revelation he received that day, and in later revelations given to him, the Prophet Joseph obtained knowledge about the nature of God and our relationship to Him as His children.
Because of that, we learn more clearly that our Heavenly Father has taught this precious doctrine from the very beginning. Allow me to cite at least two accounts from the scriptures to illustrate this.
You might remember God’s instructions to Moses as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price.
We read that “God spake unto Moses, saying: Behold, I am the Lord God Almighty, and Endless is my name.” In other words, Moses, I want you to know who I am. Then He added, “And, behold, thou art my son.” Later he said, “And I have a work for thee, Moses, my son; and thou art in the similitude of mine Only Begotten.” And then finally, He ended with, “And now, behold, this one thing I show unto thee, Moses, my son.”
It appears that God was determined to teach Moses at least one lesson: “You are my child,” which He repeated at least three times. He could not even mention the name of Moses without immediately adding that he was His son.
However, after Moses was left alone, he felt weak because he was no longer in the presence of God. That is when Satan came to tempt him. Can you see a pattern here? The first thing he said was, “Moses, son of man, worship me.”
In this context, Satan’s request to worship him may have been only a distraction. A significant temptation for Moses in that moment of weakness was to become confused and believe that he was only a “son of man,” rather than a child of God.
“And it came to pass that Moses looked upon Satan and said: Who art thou? For behold, I am a son of God, in the similitude of his Only Begotten.” Fortunately, Moses was not confused and did not allow himself to become distracted. He had learned the lesson of who he really was.
The next account is found in Matthew 4. Scholars have entitled this “the three temptations of Jesus,” as if the Lord was tempted only three times, which of course is not the case.
Hundreds of gallons of ink have been used to explain the meaning and content of these temptations. As we know, the chapter begins by explaining that Jesus had gone into the desert, “and when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred.”
Satan’s first temptation apparently had only to do with satisfying the Lord’s physical needs. “Command that these stones be made bread,” he challenged the Savior.
A second enticement may have had to do with tempting God: “Cast thyself down: for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee.”
Finally, Satan’s third temptation referred to the aspirations and glory of the world. After Jesus had been shown “all the kingdoms of the world, … [Satan] saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me.”
In truth, Satan’s ultimate temptation may have had less to do with those three specific provocations and more to do with tempting Jesus Christ to question His divine nature. At least twice, the enticement was preceded by the challenging accusation from Satan: “If thou be the Son of God”—if you really believe it, then do this or that.
Please notice what had happened immediately before Jesus went into the desert to fast and pray: we find the account of Christ’s baptism. And when He had come out of the water, there came “a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”
Do we see the connection? Can we recognize a pattern here?
It is no wonder that every time we are taught about our divine nature and destiny, the adversary of all righteousness tempts us to call them into question.
How different our decisions would be if we really knew who we really are.
We live in a challenging world, a world of increasing commotion, where honorable people strive to at least emphasize our human dignity, while we belong to a church and embrace a gospel that lift our vision and invite us into the divine.
Jesus’s commandment to be “perfect, even as [our] Father which is in heaven is perfect” is a clear reflection of His high expectations and our eternal possibilities. Now, none of this will happen overnight. In the words of President Jeffrey R. Holland, it will happen “eventually.” But the promise is that if we “come unto Christ,” we will “be perfected in him.” That requires a lot of work—not just any work, but a divine work. His work!
Now, the good news is that it is precisely our Father in Heaven who has said, “For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.”
President Russell M. Nelson’s invitation to “think celestial” implies a wonderful reminder of our divine nature, origin, and potential destination. We can obtain the celestial only through Jesus Christ’s atoning sacrifice.
Perhaps that is why Satan enticed Jesus with the very same temptation from the beginning to the end of His earthly ministry. Matthew recorded that while Jesus hung on the cross, those “that passed by reviled him, … saying, … If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross.” Glory be to God that He did not hearken but instead provided the way for us to receive all celestial blessings.
Let us always remember, there was a great price paid for our happiness.
I testify as with the Apostle Paul that “the Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are children of God: and if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith (2007), 40, 41; see also Doctrine and Covenants 130:22.


See 2 Peter 1:4; “The Family: A Proclamation to the World,” Gospel Library.


Genesis 1:26.


Psalm 82:6; see also John 10:34–35.


Preach My Gospel: A Guide to Sharing the Gospel (2023), 31.


Hebrews 12:9.


See Joseph Smith—History 1:16–17.


See Doctrine and Covenants 130:3, 22.


Moses 1:3, 4, 6, 7; emphasis added.


Moses 1:12; emphasis added.


Moses 1:13; emphasis added.


See Matthew 4:1–9.


Matthew 4:3, 6.


Matthew 3:17; emphasis added.


See Doctrine and Covenants 45:26.


Matthew 5:48; see also Joseph Smith Translation, Matthew 5:50 (in Matthew 5:48, footnote a).


Jeffrey R. Holland, “Be Ye Therefore Perfect—Eventually,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2017, 40–42.


Moroni 10:32.


Moses 1:39; emphasis added.


Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 117–19.


Matthew 27:39–40; emphasis added.


Romans 8:16–17.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"Focus on Jesus Christ and His Gospel","year":"2024","month":"10"}


Focus on Jesus Christ and His Gospel

By Elder I. Raymond Egbo
Of the Seventy

When we ignore the distractions of the world and focus on Christ and His gospel, we are guaranteed success.


In 1996 the Nigerian men’s football team won gold at the Olympic Games held in Atlanta in the United States. As the final ended, jubilant crowds poured onto the streets of every city and town in Nigeria; this country of 200 million people was instantly transformed into a massive celebration at two o’clock in the morning! There was infectious joy, happiness, and excitement as people ate, sang, and danced. In that moment, Nigeria was united and every Nigerian was content being Nigerian.
Before the Olympics, this team faced numerous challenges. As the tournament began, their financial support ended. The team competed without proper kits, training venues, food, or laundry services.



Jerome Prevost/Getty Images


At one point, they were minutes away from being eliminated from competition, but the Nigerian team triumphed against all odds. This pivotal moment changed how they saw themselves. With newfound confidence, and with individual and team hard work and dogged determination, they unitedly ignored distractions and focused on winning. This focus earned them gold medals, and Nigerians christened them the “Dream Team.” The Dream Team at the 1996 Olympics continues to be referenced in Nigerian sports.



David Cannon/Allsport/Getty Images


Once the football team learned to ignore the many distractions facing them and focused on their goal, they succeeded beyond what they thought possible and experienced great joy. (As did the rest of us in Nigeria!)
In a similar way, when we ignore the distractions of the world and focus on Christ and His gospel, we are guaranteed success beyond what we can fully imagine and can feel great joy. President Russell M. Nelson taught: “When the focus of our lives is on … Jesus Christ and His gospel, we can feel joy regardless of what is happening—or not happening—in our lives.”
I pray that the Holy Ghost will help each of us to heed President Nelson’s invitation to focus our lives on “Jesus Christ and His gospel” so we can experience joy in Christ “regardless of what is happening—or not happening—in our lives.”
Several accounts in the Book of Mormon describe individuals who turned their lives around by focusing on Jesus Christ and His gospel.
Consider Alma the Younger. He rebelled and fought against the Church. His father, Alma, prayed and fasted. An angel appeared and called Alma the Younger to repentance. In that moment, Alma began to suffer “the pains of a damned soul.” In his darkest hours, he remembered his father teaching that Christ would come to atone for the sins of the world. As his mind caught hold on this thought, he pled with God for mercy. Joy was the result, a joy he described as exquisite! Mercy and joy came to Alma because he and his father focused on the Savior.
For parents with children who have strayed, take heart! Instead of wondering why an angel does not come to help your child repent, know that the Lord has placed a mortal angel in his or her path: the bishop, another Church leader, or a ministering brother or sister. If you keep fasting and praying, if you do not set a timetable or a deadline for God, and if you trust that He is stretching forth His hand to help, then—sooner or later—you find God touching the heart of your child when your child chooses to listen. This is so because Christ is joy—Christ is hope; He is the promise “of good things to come.” So trust Jesus Christ with your child, for He is the strength of every parent and every child.
Once he experienced joy in Christ, Alma the Younger lived with that joy. But how did he maintain such joy even through difficulty and trial? He states:
“From that time even until now, I have labored without ceasing, [to] bring souls unto repentance; that I might bring them to taste of the exceeding joy of which I did taste. …
“… And … the Lord doth give me exceedingly great joy in the fruit of my labors. …
“And I have been supported under trials and troubles of every kind.”
Joy in Christ began for Alma when he exercised faith in Him and cried for mercy. Then Alma exercised his faith in Christ by laboring to help others taste of the same joy. These continuous labors produced great joy in Alma even in trials and troubles of every kind. You see, “the Lord loves effort,” and effort focused on Him brings blessings. Even severe trials can be “swallowed up in the joy of Christ.”
Another group in the Book of Mormon who made Jesus Christ and His gospel the focus of their lives and found joy are those who founded the city Helam—a place where they could raise their children and enjoy the free exercise of their religion. This righteous people living good lives were enslaved by a marauding group and stripped of the fundamental human right to exercise religion. Sometimes bad things happen to good people:
“The Lord seeth fit to chasten his people; yea, he trieth their patience and their faith.
“Nevertheless—whosoever putteth his trust in him the same shall be lifted up at the last day. Yea, and thus it was with this people.”
How did this people endure through their trials and suffering? By focusing on Christ and His gospel. Their troubles did not define them; rather, each of them turned to God, likely defining themselves as a child of God, a child of the covenant, and a disciple of Jesus Christ. As they remembered who they were and called upon God, they received peace, strength, and ultimately joy in Christ:
“Alma and his people did … pour out their hearts to [God]; and he did know the thoughts of their hearts.
“And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came to them in their afflictions, saying: Lift up your heads and be of good comfort, for I know of the covenant which ye have made unto me; and I will covenant with my people and deliver them out of bondage.”
In response, the Lord did “ease the burdens … upon [their] shoulders. … Yea, the Lord did strengthen them that they could bear up their burdens with ease, and they did submit cheerfully and with patience to all the will of the Lord.” Note that these Saints let their troubles, suffering, and trials be swallowed up in the joy of Christ! Then in due time, He showed Alma the way for escape, and Alma—a prophet of God—led them to safety.
As we focus on Christ and follow His prophet, we too will be led to Christ and the joy of His gospel. President Nelson has taught: “Joy is powerful, and focusing on joy brings God’s power into our lives. As in all things, Jesus Christ is our ultimate exemplar, ‘who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross’ [Hebrews 12:2].”


My mother recently passed away; it was a shock. I love my mother and did not plan on losing her so young. But through her passing, my family and I have experienced both sorrow and joy. I know because of Him, she is not dead—she lives! And I know because of Christ and the priesthood keys restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith, I will be with her again. The sorrow of losing my mom has been swallowed up in the joy of Christ! I am learning that to “think celestial” and “let God prevail” includes focusing on the joy available in Christ.
He lovingly invites, “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.” In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2016, 82.


Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” 82; see also Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” Ensign or Liahona, Nov. 2020, 92–95; “The Power of Spiritual Momentum,” Liahona, May 2022, 97–100.


Alma 36:16.


See Alma 36:17–21.


See 1 Timothy 1:1.


Hebrews 9:11.


See Dieter F. Uchtdorf, “Jesus Christ Is the Strength of Parents,” Liahona, May 2023, 55–59.


Alma 36:24–27.


Russell M. Nelson, in Joy D. Jones, “An Especially Noble Calling,” Ensign or Liahona, May 2020, 16.


Alma 31:38.


Mosiah 23:21–22.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Choices for Eternity” (worldwide devotional for young adults, May 15, 2022), Gospel Library.


Mosiah 24:12–13.


Mosiah 24:14–15; emphasis added.


Russell M. Nelson, “Joy and Spiritual Survival,” 82–83.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Think Celestial!,” Liahona, Nov. 2023, 117–20.


See Russell M. Nelson, “Let God Prevail,” 92–95.


Matthew 11:28; see also verses 29–30.



----- NEW TALK -----
{"title":"The Lord Jesus Christ Will Come Again","year":"2024","month":"10"}


The Lord Jesus Christ Will Come Again

By President Russell M. Nelson
President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Now is the time for you and for me to prepare for the Second Coming of our Lord and Savior, Jesus the Christ.


My dear brothers and sisters, I am grateful that the Lord has blessed me to speak with you.
In this conference, the Lord has spoken to us through His servants. I urge you to study their messages. Use them as a litmus test of what is true and what is not during the next six months.
The preservation and renovation of the Salt Lake Temple and other areas on Temple Square have been underway for nearly five years. Present projections indicate that this work will be completed by the end of 2026. We are grateful for all who are working on this massive project.
During the last six months, we have dedicated or rededicated nine temples in five countries. Between now and the end of the year, we will dedicate five more.
Today we are pleased to announce plans to construct 17 more temples. Please listen reverently as I announce the locations.


Juchitán de Zaragoza, Mexico


Santa Ana, El Salvador


Medellín, Colombia


Santiago, Dominican Republic


Puerto Montt, Chile


Dublin, Ireland


Milan, Italy


Abuja, Nigeria


Kampala, Uganda


Maputo, Mozambique


Coeur d’Alene, Idaho


Queen Creek, Arizona


El Paso, Texas


Huntsville, Alabama


Milwaukee, Wisconsin


Summit, New Jersey


Price, Utah


My dear brothers and sisters, do you see what is happening right before our eyes? I pray that we will not miss the majesty of this moment! The Lord is indeed hastening His work.
Why are we building temples at such an unprecedented pace? Why? Because the Lord has instructed us to do so. The blessings of the temple help to gather Israel on both sides of the veil. These blessings also help to prepare a people who will help prepare the world for the Second Coming of the Lord!

As the prophet Isaiah prophesied, and as memorialized in Handel’s Messiah, when Jesus Christ returns, “the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.”
In that day “the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.”
Jesus Christ will govern from both old Jerusalem and the New Jerusalem “built upon the American continent.” From these two centers, He will direct the affairs of His Church.
In that day the Lord will be known as “King of Kings, and Lord of Lords.” Those who are with Him will be “called, and chosen, and faithful.”
Brothers and sisters, now is the time for you and for me to prepare for the Second Coming of our Lord and Savior, Jesus the Christ. Now is the time for us to make our discipleship our highest priority. In a world filled with dizzying distractions, how can we do this?

Regular worship in the temple will help us. In the house of the Lord, we focus on Jesus Christ. We learn of Him. We make covenants to follow Him. We come to know Him. As we keep our temple covenants, we gain greater access to the Lord’s strengthening power. In the temple, we receive protection from the buffetings of the world. We experience the pure love of Jesus Christ and our Heavenly Father in great abundance! We feel peace and spiritual reassurance, in contrast to the turbulence of the world.
Here is my promise to you: Every sincere seeker of Jesus Christ will find Him in the temple. You will feel His mercy. You will find answers to your most vexing questions. You will better comprehend the joy of His gospel.
I have learned that the most crucial question we each must answer is this: To whom or to what will I give my life?

My decision to follow Jesus Christ is the most important decision I have ever made. During medical school, I gained a testimony of the divinity of God the Father and His Son, Jesus Christ. Since then our Savior has been the rock upon which I have built my life. That choice has made all the difference! That decision has made so many other decisions easier. That decision has given me purpose and direction. It has also helped me weather the storms of life. Let me share two examples:
First, when my wife Dantzel unexpectedly passed away, I could not reach any of our children. There I was, alone, devastated, and crying out for help. Gratefully, through His Spirit, the Lord taught me why my dear Dantzel had been taken home. With that understanding, I was comforted. Over time, I was better able to cope with my grief. Later, I married my beloved wife Wendy. She was a central part of my second example.
When Wendy and I were on assignment in a distant land, armed robbers put a gun to my head and pulled the trigger. But the gun did not fire. Throughout that experience, both of our lives were threatened. Yet Wendy and I felt an undeniable peace. It was the peace “which passeth all understanding.”
Brothers and sisters, the Lord will comfort you too! He will strengthen you. He will bless you with peace, even amidst chaos.

Please listen to this promise of Jesus Christ to you: “I will be on your right hand and on your left, and my Spirit shall be in your hearts, and mine angels round about you, to bear you up.”
There is no limit to the Savior’s capacity to help you. His incomprehensible suffering in Gethsemane and on Calvary was for you! His infinite Atonement is for you!
I urge you to devote time each week—for the rest of your life—to increase your understanding of the Atonement of Jesus Christ. My heart aches for those who are mired in sin and don’t know how to get out. I weep for those who struggle spiritually or who carry heavy burdens alone because they do not understand what Jesus Christ did for them.
Jesus Christ took upon Himself your sins, your pains, your heartaches, and your infirmities. You do not have to bear them alone! He will forgive you as you repent. He will bless you with what you need. He will heal your wounded soul. As you yoke yourself to Him, your burdens will feel lighter. If you will make and keep covenants to follow Jesus Christ, you will find that the painful moments of your life are temporary. Your afflictions will be “swallowed up in the joy of Christ.”
It is neither too early nor too late for you to become a devout disciple of Jesus Christ. Then you will experience fully the blessings of His Atonement. You will also be more effective in helping to gather Israel.

My dear brothers and sisters, in a coming day, Jesus Christ will return to the earth as the millennial Messiah. So today I call upon you to rededicate your lives to Jesus Christ. I call upon you to help gather scattered Israel and to prepare the world for the Second Coming of the Lord. I call upon you to talk of Christ, testify of Christ, have faith in Christ, and rejoice in Christ!
Come unto Christ and “offer your whole [soul]” to Him. This is the secret to a life of joy!
The best is yet to come, my dear brothers and sisters, because the Savior is coming again! The best is yet to come because the Lord is hastening His work. The best is yet to come as we fully turn our hearts and our lives to Jesus Christ.
I bear my solemn witness that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. I am His disciple. I am honored to be His servant. At His Second Coming, “the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.” That day will be filled with joy for the righteous!
Through the power of the sacred priesthood keys I hold, I declare this truth to you and to all the world! In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.


Notes


Manti Utah Temple rededication (President Russell M. Nelson, April 21); Urdaneta Philippines Temple (President Dallin H. Oaks, April 28); Puebla Mexico Temple (Elder Gerrit W. Gong, May 19); Taylorsville Utah Temple (Elder Gerrit W. Gong, June 2); Cobán Guatemala Temple (Elder Dale G. Renlund, June 9); Salta Argentina Temple (Elder D. Todd Christofferson, June 16); Layton Utah Temple (Elder David A. Bednar, June 16); Pittsburgh Pennsylvania Temple (Elder Dieter F. Uchtdorf, September 15); Mendoza Argentina Temple (Elder Ronald A. Rasband, September 22).


San Pedro Sula Honduras Temple (October 13); Salvador Brazil Temple (October 20); Deseret Peak Utah Temple (November 10); Casper Wyoming Temple (November 24); Tallahassee Florida Temple (December 8).


See Doctrine and Covenants 88:73.


Isaiah 40:5; see also George Frideric Handel, “And the Glory of the Lord,” The Messiah, ed. T. Tertius Noble (1912), 16–18.


Isaiah 9:6.


See Zechariah 14:4–7; Doctrine and Covenants 45:48–66; 133:19–21; see also Micah 4:2: “For the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.”


Articles of Faith 1:10; see also Ether 13:3–10; Doctrine and Covenants 84:2–4.


Revelation 19:16; Revelation 17:14.


See Alma 34:32.


You may feel to say, as did Ammon, “Who can glory too much in the Lord? … Behold, … I cannot say the smallest part which I feel” (Alma 26:16).


See Helaman 5:12.


Philippians 4:7.


Doctrine and Covenants 84:88.


See Alma 7:11–12; see also Luke 4:18.


See Alma 7:12.


See Psalm 147:3; Jacob 2:8.


See Mosiah 24:14.


Alma 31:38.


See 2 Nephi 25:26.


Omni 1:26.


